clear
ins April (n.) The fourth month of the year. \ (n.) Fig.: With reference to April being the month in which vegetation begins to put forth, the variableness of its weather, etc.
ins August (a.) Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having exalted birth, character, state, or authority. \ (a.) The eighth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
ins Christmas (n.) An annual church festival (December 25) and in some States a legal holiday, in memory of the birth of Christ, often celebrated by a particular church service, and also by special gifts, greetings, and hospitality.
ins December (n.) The twelfth and last month of the year, containing thirty-one days. During this month occurs the winter solstice. \ (n.) Fig.: With reference to the end of the year and to the winter season; as, the December of his life.
ins February (n.) The second month in the year, said to have been introduced into the Roman calendar by Numa. In common years this month contains twenty-eight days; in the bissextile, or leap year, it has twenty-nine days.
ins Friday (n.) The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and preceding Saturday.
ins I pro. the person speaking \ I, the ninth letter of the English alphabet, takes its form from the Phoenician, through the Latin and the Greek. The Phoenician letter was probably of Egyptian origin. Its original value was nearly the same as that of the Italian I, or long e as in mete. Etymologically I is most closely related to e, y, j, g; as in dint, dent, beverage, L. bibere; E. kin, AS. cynn; E. thin, AS. /ynne; E. dominion, donjon, dungeon. \ In our old authors, I was often used for ay (or aye), yes, which is pronounced nearly like it. \ As a numeral, I stands for 1, II for 2, etc. \ (object.) The nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a speaker or writer denotes himself.
ins January (n.) The first month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
ins July (n.) The seventh month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
ins June (n.) The sixth month of the year, containing thirty days. \ (n.) The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven, and the goddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the Greek Hera. \ (n.) One of the early discovered asteroids.
ins March (n.) The third month of the year, containing thirty-one days. \ (n.) A territorial border or frontier; a region adjacent to a boundary line; a confine; -- used chiefly in the plural, and in English history applied especially to the border land on the frontiers between England and Scotland, and England and Wales. \ (v. i.) To border; to be contiguous; to lie side by side. \ (v. i.) To move with regular steps, as a soldier; to walk in a grave, deliberate, or stately manner; to advance steadily. \ (v. i.) To proceed by walking in a body or in military order; as, the German army marched into France. \ (v. t.) TO cause to move with regular steps in the manner of a soldier; to cause to move in military array, or in a body, as troops; to cause to advance in a steady, regular; to cause to go by peremptory command, or by force. \ (n.) The act of marching; a movement of soldiers from one stopping place to another; military progress; advance of troops. \ (n.) Hence: Measured and regular advance or movement, like that of soldiers moving in order; stately or deliberate walk; steady onward movement. \ (n.) The distance passed over in marching, an hour's march; a march of twenty miles. \ (n.) A piece of music designed or fitted to accompany and guide the movement of troops; a piece of music in the march form.
ins May (v.) An auxiliary verb qualifyng the meaning of another verb, by expressing: (a) Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can. \ (n.) A maiden. \ (n.) The fifth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. \ (n.) The early part or springtime of life. \ (n.) The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. \ (n.) The merrymaking of May Day.
ins Miss (n.) A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a girl or a woman who has not been married. See Mistress, 5. \ (n.) A young unmarried woman or a girl; as, she is a miss of sixteen. \ (n.) A kept mistress. See Mistress, 4. \ (n.) In the game of three-card loo, an extra hand, dealt on the table, which may be substituted for the hand dealt to a player. \ (v. t.) To fail of hitting, reaching, getting, finding, seeing, hearing, etc., to miss the mark one shoots at; to miss the train by being late; to miss opportunites of getting knowledge; to miss the point or meaning of something said. \ (v. t.) To omit; to fail to have or to do; to get without; to dispense with; -- now seldom applied to persons. \ (v. t.) To discover the absence or omission of; to feel the want of; to mourn the loss of; to want. \ (v. i.) To fail to hit; to fly wide; to deviate from the true direction. \ (v. i.) To fail to obtain, learn, or find; -- with of. \ (v. i.) To go wrong; to err. \ (v. i.) To be absent, deficient, or wanting. \ (n.) The act of missing; failure to hit, reach, find, obtain, etc. \ (n.) Loss; want; felt absence. \ (n.) Mistake; error; fault. \ (n.) Harm from mistake.
ins Monday (n.) The second day of the week; the day following Sunday.
ins Mr. The customary abbreviation of Mister in writing and printing. See Master, 4.
ins Mrs. The customary abbreviation of Mistress when used as a title of courtesy, in writing and printing.
ins November (n.) The eleventh month of the year, containing thirty days.
ins October (n.) The tenth month of the year, containing thirty-one days. \ (n.) Ale or cider made in that month.
ins Saturday (n.) The seventh or last day of the week; the day following Friday and preceding Sunday.
ins September (n.) The ninth month of the year, containing thurty days.
ins Sunday (n.) The first day of the week, -- consecrated among Christians to rest from secular employments, and to religious worship; the Christian Sabbath; the Lord's Day. \ (a.) Belonging to the Christian Sabbath.
ins Thursday (n.) The fifth day of the week, following Wednesday and preceding Friday.
ins Tuesday (n.) The third day of the week, following Monday and preceding Wednesday.
ins Wednesday (a.) The fourth day of the week; the next day after Tuesday.
ins a The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets. The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as also the small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter, etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed from the Greek Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the first letter (/) of the Phoenician alphabet, the equivalent of the Hebrew Aleph, and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was a consonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not an element of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to represent their vowel Alpha with the a sound, the Phoenician alphabet having no vowel symbols. \ The name of the sixth tone in the model major scale (that in C), or the first tone of the minor scale, which is named after it the scale in A minor. The second string of the violin is tuned to the A in the treble staff. -- A sharp (A/) is the name of a musical tone intermediate between A and B. -- A flat (A/) is the name of a tone intermediate between A and G. \ An adjective, commonly called the indefinite article, and signifying one or any, but less emphatically. \ In each; to or for each; as, "twenty leagues a day", "a hundred pounds a year", "a dollar a yard", etc. \ (prep.) In; on; at; by. \ (prep.) In process of; in the act of; into; to; -- used with verbal substantives in -ing which begin with a consonant. This is a shortened form of the preposition an (which was used before the vowel sound); as in a hunting, a building, a begging. \ Of. \ A barbarous corruption of have, of he, and sometimes of it and of they. \ An expletive, void of sense, to fill up the meter
ins able v. having the power to do something \ (superl.) Fit; adapted; suitable. \ (superl.) Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent; qualified; capable; as, an able workman, soldier, seaman, a man able to work; a mind able to reason; a person able to be generous; able to endure pain; able to play on a piano. \ (superl.) Specially: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental powers; showing ability or skill; talented; clever; powerful, the ablest man in the senate; an able speech. \ (superl.) Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence, able to inherit or devise property. \ (a.) To make able; to enable; to strengthen. \ (a.) To vouch for.
ins about ad. almost ("about half"); of or having a relation to ("We talk about the weather.") \ (prep.) Around; all round; on every side of. \ (prep.) In the immediate neighborhood of; in contiguity or proximity to; near, as to place; by or on (one's person). \ (prep.) Over or upon different parts of; through or over in various directions; here and there in; to and fro in; throughout. \ (prep.) Near; not far from; -- determining approximately time, size, quantity. \ (prep.) In concern with; engaged in; intent on. \ (prep.) On the point or verge of; going; in act of. \ (prep.) Concerning; with regard to; on account of; touching. \ (adv.) On all sides; around. \ (adv.) In circuit; circularly; by a circuitous way; around the outside; as, a mile about, and a third of a mile across. \ (adv.) Here and there; around; in one place and another. \ (adv.) Nearly; approximately; with close correspondence, in quality, manner, degree, etc., about as cold; about as high; -- also of quantity, number, time. \ (adv.) To a reserved position; half round; in the opposite direction; on the opposite tack, to face about; to turn one's self about.
ins above ad. at a higher place \ (prep.) In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath. \ (prep.) Figuratively; superior to in any respect; surpassing; beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things above comprehension; above mean actions; conduct above reproach. \ (prep.) Surpassing in number or quantity; more than, above a hundred. (Passing into the adverbial sense. See Above, adv., 4.) \ (adv.) In a higher place; overhead; into or from heaven, the clouds above. \ (adv.) Earlier in order; higher in the same page; hence, in a foregoing page. \ (adv.) Higher in rank or power, he appealed to the court above. \ (adv.) More than, above five hundred were present.
ins across ad. from side to side; to the other side \ (n.) From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a direction opposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river. \ (adv.) From side to side, with arms folded across. \ (adv.) Obliquely; amiss; awry.
ins act v. to do something \ (n.) That which is done or doing; the exercise of power, or the effect, of which power exerted is the cause; a performance; a deed. \ (n.) The result of public deliberation; the decision or determination of a legislative body, council, court of justice, etc.; a decree, edit, law, judgment, resolve, award; as, an act of Parliament, or of Congress. \ (n.) A formal solemn writing, expressing that something has been done. \ (n.) A performance of part of a play; one of the principal divisions of a play or dramatic work in which a certain definite part of the action is completed. \ (n.) A thesis maintained in public, in some English universities, by a candidate for a degree, or to show the proficiency of a student. \ (n.) A state of reality or real existence as opposed to a possibility or possible existence. \ (n.) Process of doing; action. In act, in the very doing; on the point of (doing). \ (v. t.) To move to action; to actuate; to animate. \ (v. t.) To perform; to execute; to do. \ (v. t.) To perform, as an actor; to represent dramatically on the stage. \ (v. t.) To assume the office or character of; to play; to personate, to act the hero. \ (v. t.) To feign or counterfeit; to simulate. \ (v. i.) To exert power; to produce an effect, the stomach acts upon food. \ (v. i.) To perform actions; to fulfill functions; to put forth energy; to move, as opposed to remaining at rest; to carry into effect a determination of the will. \ (v. i.) To behave or conduct, as in morals, private duties, or public offices; to bear or deport one's self, we know not why he has acted so. \ (v. i.) To perform on the stage; to represent a character.
ins afraid ad. feeling fear \ (p. a.) Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive.
ins after ad. later; behind \ (a.) Next; later in time; subsequent; succeeding; as, an after period of life. \ (a.) Hinder; nearer the rear. \ (a.) To ward the stern of the ship; -- applied to any object in the rear part of a vessel; as the after cabin, after hatchway. \ (prep.) Behind in place, men in line one after another. \ (prep.) Below in rank; next to in order. \ (prep.) Later in time, after supper, after three days. It often precedes a clause. Formerly that was interposed between it and the clause. \ (prep.) Subsequent to and in consequence of, after what you have said, I shall be careful. \ (prep.) Subsequent to and notwithstanding, after all our advice, you took that course. \ (prep.) Moving toward from behind; following, in search of; in pursuit of. \ (prep.) Denoting the aim or object; concerning; in relation to, to look after workmen; to inquire after a friend; to thirst after righteousness. \ (prep.) In imitation of; in conformity with; after the manner of, to make a thing after a model; a picture after Rubens; the boy takes after his father. \ (prep.) According to; in accordance with; in conformity with the nature of, he acted after his kind. \ (prep.) According to the direction and influence of; in proportion to; befitting. \ (adv.) Subsequently in time or place; behind; afterward, he follows after.
ins afternoon (n.) The part of the day which follows noon, between noon and evening.
ins again ad. another time; as before \ (adv.) In return, back; as, bring us word again. \ (adv.) Another time; once more; anew. \ (adv.) Once repeated; -- of quantity, as large again, half as much again. \ (adv.) In any other place. \ (adv.) On the other hand. \ (adv.) Moreover; besides; further. \ (prep.) Alt. of Agains
ins against ad. opposed to; not agreeing with something \ (prep.) Abreast; opposite to; facing; towards; as, against the mouth of a river; -- in this sense often preceded by over. \ (prep.) From an opposite direction so as to strike or come in contact with; in contact with; upon, hail beats against the roof. \ (prep.) In opposition to, whether the opposition is of sentiment or of action; on the other side; counter to; in contrariety to; hence, adverse to, against reason; against law; to run a race against time. \ (prep.) By of before the time that; in preparation for; so as to be ready for the time when.
ins age n. how old a person or thing is \ (n.) The whole duration of a being, whether animal, vegetable, or other kind; lifetime. \ (n.) That part of the duration of a being or a thing which is between its beginning and any given time; as, what is the present age of a man, or of the earth? \ (n.) The latter part of life; an advanced period of life; seniority; state of being old. \ (n.) One of the stages of life, the age of infancy, of youth, etc. \ (n.) Mature age; especially, the time of life at which one attains full personal rights and capacities, to come of age; he (or she) is of age. \ (n.) The time of life at which some particular power or capacity is understood to become vested, the age of consent; the age of discretion. \ (n.) A particular period of time in history, as distinguished from others, the golden age, the age of Pericles. \ (n.) A great period in the history of the Earth. \ (n.) A century; the period of one hundred years. \ (n.) The people who live at a particular period; hence, a generation. \ (n.) A long time. \ (v. i.) To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age, he grew fat as he aged. \ (v. t.) To cause to grow old; to impart the characteristics of age to, grief ages us. \ (n.) In poker, the right belonging to the player to the left of the dealer to pass the first round in betting, and then to come in last or stay out; also, the player holding this position; the eldest hand.
ins ago ad. of time past; before now \ (a. & adv.) Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago.
ins air n. the mixture of gases around the earth, mostly nitrogen and oxygen, that we breathe \ (n.) The fluid which we breathe, and which surrounds the earth; the atmosphere. It is invisible, inodorous, insipid, transparent, compressible, elastic, and ponderable. \ (n.) Symbolically: Something unsubstantial, light, or volatile. \ (n.) A particular state of the atmosphere, as respects heat, cold, moisture, etc., or as affecting the sensations; as, a smoky air, a damp air, the morning air, etc. \ (n.) Any aeriform body; a gas, oxygen was formerly called vital air. \ (n.) Air in motion; a light breeze; a gentle wind. \ (n.) Odoriferous or contaminated air. \ (n.) That which surrounds and influences. \ (n.) Utterance abroad; publicity; vent. \ (n.) Intelligence; information. \ (n.) A musical idea, or motive, rhythmically developed in consecutive single tones, so as to form a symmetrical and balanced whole, which may be sung by a single voice to the stanzas of a hymn or song, or even to plain prose, or played upon an instrument; a melody; a tune; an aria. \ (n.) In harmonized chorals, psalmody, part songs, the part which bears the tune or melody -- in modern harmony usually the upper part -- is sometimes called the air. \ (n.) The peculiar look, appearance, and bearing of a person; mien; demeanor, the air of a youth; a heavy air; a lofty air. \ (n.) Peculiar appearance; apparent character; semblance; manner; style. \ (n.) An artificial or affected manner; show of pride or vanity; haughtiness, it is said of a person, he puts on airs. \ (n.) The representation or reproduction of the effect of the atmospheric medium through which every object in nature is viewed. \ (n.) Carriage; attitude; action; movement, the head of that portrait has a good air. \ (n.) The artificial motion or carriage of a horse. \ (n.) To expose to the air for the purpose of cooling, refreshing, or purifying; to ventilate, to air a room. \ (n.) To expose for the sake of public notice; to display ostentatiously, to air one's opinion. \ (n.) To expose to heat, for the purpose of expelling dampness, or of warming, to air linen; to air liquors.
ins airplane n. a vehicle with wings that flies
ins airport n. a place where airplanes take off and land
ins album n. a collection of recorded music \ (n.) A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list of names, etc. \ (n.) A register for visitors' names; a visitors' book. \ (n.) A blank book, in which to insert autographs sketches, memorial writing of friends, photographs, etc.
ins all ad. everything; everyone; the complete amount \ (a.) The whole quantity, extent, duration, amount, quality, or degree of; the whole; the whole number of; any whatever; every; as, all the wheat; all the land; all the year; all the strength; all happiness; all abundance; loss of all power; beyond all doubt; you will see us all (or all of us). \ (a.) Any. \ (a.) Only; alone; nothing but. \ (adv.) Wholly; completely; altogether; entirely; quite; very, all bedewed; my friend is all for amusement. \ (adv.) Even; just. (Often a mere intensive adjunct.) \ (n.) The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing; everything included or concerned; the aggregate; totality; everything or every person, our all is at stake. \ (conj.) Although; albeit.
ins almost ad. a little less than completely \ (adv.) Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part.
ins alone ad. separated from others \ (a.) Quite by one's self; apart from, or exclusive of, others; single; solitary; -- applied to a person or thing. \ (a.) Of or by itself; by themselves; without any thing more or any one else; without a sharer; only. \ (a.) Sole; only; exclusive. \ (a.) Hence; Unique; rare; matchless. \ (adv.) Solely; simply; exclusively.
ins along ad. near or on ("along the road") \ (adv.) By the length; in a line with the length; lengthwise. \ (adv.) In a line, or with a progressive motion; onward; forward. \ (adv.) In company; together. \ (prep.) By the length of, as distinguished from across. \ (Now heard only in the prep. phrase along of.)
ins already ad. before now; even now \ (adv.) Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future; by this time; previously.
ins also ad. added to; too \ (adv. & conj.) In like manner; likewise. \ (adv. & conj.) In addition; besides; as well; further; too. \ (adv. & conj.) Even as; as; so.
ins always ad. at all times; every time \ (adv.) At all times; ever; perpetually; throughout all time; continually; as, God is always the same. \ (adv.) Constancy during a certain period, or regularly at stated intervals; invariably; uniformly; -- opposed to sometimes or occasionally.
ins am The first person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mode, present tense. See Be.
ins among ad. in or part of (a group) \ (prep.) Alt. of Amongst
ins an This word is properly an adjective, but is commonly called the indefinite article. It is used before nouns of the singular number only, and signifies one, or any, but somewhat less emphatically. In such expressions as "twice an hour," "once an age," a shilling an ounce (see 2d A, 2), it has a distributive force, and is equivalent to each, every. \ (conj.) If; -- a word used by old English authors.
ins and conj. also; in addition to; with \ (conj.) A particle which expresses the relation of connection or addition. It is used to conjoin a word with a word, a clause with a clause, or a sentence with a sentence. \ (conj.) In order to; -- used instead of the infinitival to, especially after try, come, go. \ (conj.) It is sometimes, in old songs, a mere expletive. \ (conj.) If; though. See An, conj.
ins angry (superl.) Troublesome; vexatious; rigorous. \ (superl.) Inflamed and painful, as a sore. \ (superl.) Touched with anger; under the emotion of anger; feeling resentment; enraged; -- followed generally by with before a person, and at before a thing. \ (superl.) Showing anger; proceeding from anger; acting as if moved by anger; wearing the marks of anger; as, angry words or tones; an angry sky; angry waves. \ (superl.) Red. \ (superl.) Sharp; keen; stimulated.
ins animal n. a living creature that moves, such as a dog or cat \ (n.) An organized living being endowed with sensation and the power of voluntary motion, and also characterized by taking its food into an internal cavity or stomach for digestion; by giving carbonic acid to the air and taking oxygen in the process of respiration; and by increasing in motive power or active aggressive force with progress to maturity. \ (n.) One of the lower animals; a brute or beast, as distinguished from man; as, men and animals. \ (a.) Of or relating to animals, animal functions. \ (a.) Pertaining to the merely sentient part of a creature, as distinguished from the intellectual, rational, or spiritual part, the animal passions or appetites. \ (a.) Consisting of the flesh of animals, animal food.
ins another ad. one more; a different one \ (pron. & a.) One more, in addition to a former number; a second or additional one, similar in likeness or in effect. \ (pron. & a.) Not the same; different. \ (pron. & a.) Any or some; any different person, indefinitely; any one else; some one else.
ins answer n. a statement produced by a question; v. to make a statement after being asked a question \ (n.) To speak in defense against; to reply to in defense; as, to answer a charge; to answer an accusation. \ (n.) To speak or write in return to, as in return to a call or question, or to a speech, declaration, argument, or the like; to reply to (a question, remark, etc.); to respond to. \ (n.) To respond to satisfactorily; to meet successfully by way of explanation, or justification, and the like; to refute. \ (n.) To be or act in return or response to. \ (n.) To be or act in compliance with, in fulfillment or satisfaction of, as an order, obligation, demand, he answered my claim upon him; the servant answered the bell. \ (n.) To render account to or for. \ (n.) To atone; to be punished for. \ (n.) To be opposite to; to face. \ (n.) To be or act an equivalent to, or as adequate or sufficient for; to serve for; to repay. \ (n.) To be or act in accommodation, conformity, relation, or proportion to; to correspond to; to suit. \ (v. i.) To speak or write by way of return (originally, to a charge), or in reply; to make response. \ (v. i.) To make a satisfactory response or return. \ (v. i.) To render account, or to be responsible; to be accountable; to make amends, the man must answer to his employer for the money intrusted to his care. \ (v. i.) To be or act in return. \ (v. i.) To be or act by way of compliance, fulfillment, reciprocation, or satisfaction; to serve the purpose, gypsum answers as a manure on some soils. \ (v. i.) To be opposite, or to act in opposition. \ (v. i.) To be or act as an equivalent, or as adequate or sufficient, a very few will answer. \ (v. i.) To be or act in conformity, or by way of accommodation, correspondence, or proportion; to conform; to correspond; to suit; -- usually with to. \ (n.) A reply to a change; a defense. \ (n.) Something said or written in reply to a question, a call, an argument, an address; a reply. \ (n.) Something done in return for, or in consequence of, something else; a responsive action. \ (n.) A solution, the result of a mathematical operation, the answer to a problem. \ (n.) A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; a confutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsive declaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is the usual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill.
ins any ad. one or more of no special kind \ (a. & pron.) One indifferently, out of an indefinite number; one indefinitely, whosoever or whatsoever it may be. \ (a. & pron.) Some, of whatever kind, quantity, or number; as, are there any witnesses present? are there any other houses like it? \ (adv.) To any extent; in any degree; at all.
ins anybody (n.) Any one out of an indefinite number of persons; anyone; any person. \ (n.) A person of consideration or standing.
ins anyone (n.) One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody. [Commonly written as two words.]
ins anything (n.) Any object, act, state, event, or fact whatever; thing of any kind; something or other; aught; as, I would not do it for anything. \ (n.) Expressing an indefinite comparison; -- with as or like. \ (adv.) In any measure; anywise; at all.
ins apartment (n.) A room in a building; a division in a house, separated from others by partitions. \ (n.) A set or suite of rooms. \ (n.) A compartment.
ins apple (n.) The fleshy pome or fruit of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus malus) cultivated in numberless varieties in the temperate zones. \ (n.) Any tree genus Pyrus which has the stalk sunken into the base of the fruit; an apple tree. \ (n.) Any fruit or other vegetable production resembling, or supposed to resemble, the apple; as, apple of love, or love apple (a tomato), balsam apple, egg apple, oak apple. \ (n.) Anything round like an apple, an apple of gold. \ (v. i.) To grow like an apple; to bear apples.
ins are The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be; but etymologically a different word from be, or was. Am, art, are, and is, all come from the root as. \ (n.) The unit of superficial measure, being a square of which each side is ten meters in length; 100 square meters, or about 119.6 square yards.
ins arm (n.) The limb of the human body which extends from the shoulder to the hand; also, the corresponding limb of a monkey. \ (n.) Anything resembling an arm \ (n.) The fore limb of an animal, as of a bear. \ (n.) A limb, or locomotive or prehensile organ, of an invertebrate animal. \ (n.) A branch of a tree. \ (n.) A slender part of an instrument or machine, projecting from a trunk, axis, or fulcrum; as, the arm of a steelyard. \ (n.) The end of a yard, the part of an anchor which ends in the fluke. \ (n.) An inlet of water from the sea. \ (n.) A support for the elbow, at the side of a chair, the end of a sofa, etc. \ (n.) Fig.: Power; might; strength; support, the secular arm; the arm of the law. \ (n.) A branch of the military service, the cavalry arm was made efficient. \ (n.) A weapon of offense or defense; an instrument of warfare; -- commonly in the pl. \ (v. t.) To take by the arm; to take up in one's arms. \ (v. t.) To furnish with arms or limbs. \ (v. t.) To furnish or equip with weapons of offense or defense, to arm soldiers; to arm the country. \ (v. t.) To cover or furnish with a plate, or with whatever will add strength, force, security, or efficiency, to arm the hit of a sword; to arm a hook in angling. \ (v. t.) Fig.: To furnish with means of defense; to prepare for resistance; to fortify, in a moral sense. \ (v. i.) To provide one's self with arms, weapons, or means of attack or resistance; to take arms.
ins around ad. on every side (of) \ (adv.) In a circle; circularly; on every side; round. \ (adv.) In a circuit; here and there within the surrounding space; all about; as, to travel around from town to town. \ (adv.) Near; in the neighborhood, this man was standing around when the fight took place. \ (prep.) On all sides of; encircling; encompassing; so as to make the circuit of; about. \ (prep.) From one part to another of; at random through; about; on another side of, to travel around the country; a house standing around the corner.
ins arrive v. to come to a place, especially at the end of a trip \ (v. i.) To come to the shore or bank. In present usage: To come in progress by water, or by traveling on land; to reach by water or by land; -- followed by at (formerly sometimes by to), also by in and from. \ (v. i.) To reach a point by progressive motion; to gain or compass an object by effort, practice, study, inquiry, reasoning, or experiment. \ (v. i.) To come; said of time; as, the time arrived. \ (v. i.) To happen or occur. \ (v. t.) To bring to shore. \ (v. t.) To reach; to come to. \ (n.) Arrival.
ins art n. expressions or creations by humans, such as paintings, music, writing or statues \ The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, of the substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the plural are, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending of the second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn or poetical style. \ (n.) The employment of means to accomplish some desired end; the adaptation of things in the natural world to the uses of life; the application of knowledge or power to practical purposes. \ (n.) A system of rules serving to facilitate the performance of certain actions; a system of principles and rules for attaining a desired end; method of doing well some special work; -- often contradistinguished from science or speculative principles; as, the art of building or engraving; the art of war; the art of navigation. \ (n.) The systematic application of knowledge or skill in effecting a desired result. Also, an occupation or business requiring such knowledge or skill. \ (n.) The application of skill to the production of the beautiful by imitation or design, or an occupation in which skill is so employed, as in painting and sculpture; one of the fine arts, he prefers art to literature. \ (n.) Those branches of learning which are taught in the academical course of colleges, master of arts. \ (n.) Learning; study; applied knowledge, science, or letters. \ (n.) Skill, dexterity, or the power of performing certain actions, acquired by experience, or observation; knack, a man has the art of managing his business to advantage. \ (n.) Skillful plan; device. \ (n.) Cunning; artifice; craft. \ (n.) The black art; magic.
ins artist (n.) One who practices some mechanic art or craft; an artisan. \ (n.) One who professes and practices an art in which science and taste preside over the manual execution. \ (n.) One who shows trained skill or rare taste in any manual art or occupation. \ (n.) An artful person; a schemer.
ins as conj. equally ("as fast as"); when; while \ (adv. & conj.) Denoting equality or likeness in kind, degree, or manner; like; similar to; in the same manner with or in which; in accordance with; in proportion to; to the extent or degree in which or to which; equally; no less than; as, ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil; you will reap as you sow; do as you are bidden. \ (adv. & conj.) In the idea, character, or condition of, -- limiting the view to certain attributes or relations, virtue considered as virtue; this actor will appear as Hamlet. \ (adv. & conj.) While; during or at the same time that, he trembled as he spoke. \ (adv. & conj.) Because; since; it being the case that. \ (adv. & conj.) Expressing concession. (Often approaching though in meaning). \ (adv. & conj.) That, introducing or expressing a result or consequence, after the correlatives so and such. \ (adv. & conj.) As if; as though. \ (adv. & conj.) For instance; by way of example; thus; -- used to introduce illustrative phrases, sentences, or citations. \ (adv. & conj.) Than. \ (adv. & conj.) Expressing a wish. \ (n.) An ace. \ (n.) A Roman weight, answering to the libra or pound, equal to nearly eleven ounces Troy weight. It was divided into twelve ounces. \ (n.) A Roman copper coin, originally of a pound weight (12 oz.); but reduced, after the first Punic war, to two ounces; in the second Punic war, to one ounce; and afterwards to half an ounce.
ins ask v. to question; to say something is wanted ("We ask the teacher questions every day.") \ (v. t.) To request; to seek to obtain by words; to petition; to solicit; -- often with of, in the sense of from, before the person addressed. \ (v. t.) To require, demand, claim, or expect, whether by way of remuneration or return, or as a matter of necessity; as, what price do you ask? \ (v. t.) To interrogate or inquire of or concerning; to put a question to or about; to question. \ (v. t.) To invite, to ask one to an entertainment. \ (v. t.) To publish in church for marriage; -- said of both the banns and the persons. \ (v. i.) To request or petition; -- usually followed by for, to ask for bread. \ (v. i.) To make inquiry, or seek by request; -- sometimes followed by after. \ (n.) A water newt.
ins at prep. in or near ("at the edge"); where ("look at"); when ("at noon") \ (prep.) Primarily, this word expresses the relations of presence, nearness in place or time, or direction toward; as, at the ninth hour; at the house; to aim at a mark. It is less definite than in or on; at the house may be in or near the house. From this original import are derived all the various uses of at. \ (prep.) A relation of proximity to, or of presence in or on, something, at the door; at your shop; at home; at school; at hand; at sea and on land. \ (prep.) The relation of some state or condition, at war; at peace; at ease; at your service; at fault; at liberty; at risk; at disadvantage. \ (prep.) The relation of some employment or action; occupied with, at engraving; at husbandry; at play; at work; at meat (eating); except at puns. \ (prep.) The relation of a point or position in a series, or of degree, rate, or value, with the thermometer at 80; goods sold at a cheap price; a country estimated at 10,000 square miles; life is short at the longest. \ (prep.) The relations of time, age, or order, at ten o'clock; at twenty-one; at once; at first. \ (prep.) The relations of source, occasion, reason, consequence, or effect, at the sight; at this news; merry at anything; at this declaration; at his command; to demand, require, receive, deserve, endure at your hands. \ (prep.) Relation of direction toward an object or end, look at it; to point at one; to aim at a mark; to throw, strike, shoot, wink, mock, laugh at any one.
ins attack n. a violent attempt to damage, injure or kill; v. to start a fight \ (v. t.) To fall upon with force; to assail, as with force and arms; to assault. \ (v. t.) To assail with unfriendly speech or writing; to begin a controversy with; to attempt to overthrow or bring into disrepute, by criticism or satire; to censure; as, to attack a man, or his opinions, in a pamphlet. \ (v. t.) To set to work upon, as upon a task or problem, or some object of labor or investigation. \ (v. t.) To begin to affect; to begin to act upon, injuriously or destructively; to begin to decompose or waste. \ (v. i.) To make an onset or attack. \ (n.) The act of attacking, or falling on with force or violence; an onset; an assault; -- opposed to defense. \ (n.) An assault upon one's feelings or reputation with unfriendly or bitter words. \ (n.) A setting to work upon some task, etc. \ (n.) An access of disease; a fit of sickness. \ (n.) The beginning of corrosive, decomposing, or destructive action, by a chemical agent.
ins aunt (n.) The sister of one's father or mother; -- correlative to nephew or niece. Also applied to an uncle's wife. \ (n.) An old woman; and old gossip. \ (n.) A bawd, or a prostitute.
ins autumn n. the time of the year between summer and winter \ (n.) The third season of the year, or the season between summer and winter, often called "the fall." Astronomically, it begins in the northern temperate zone at the autumnal equinox, about September 23, and ends at the winter solstice, about December 23; but in popular language, autumn, in America, comprises September, October, and November. \ (n.) The harvest or fruits of autumn. \ (n.) The time of maturity or decline; latter portion; third stage.
ins away ad. not near \ (adv.) From a place; hence. \ (adv.) Absent; gone; at a distance; as, the master is away from home. \ (adv.) Aside; off; in another direction. \ (adv.) From a state or condition of being; out of existence. \ (adv.) By ellipsis of the verb, equivalent to an imperative: Go or come away; begone; take away. \ (adv.) On; in continuance; without intermission or delay, sing away.
ins baby n. a newly born creature \ (n.) An infant or young child of either sex; a babe. \ (n.) A small image of an infant; a doll. \ (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an infant; young or little; as, baby swans. \ (v. i.) To treat like a young child; to keep dependent; to humor; to fondle.
ins back n. the part behind the front; ad. the other way from forward \ (n.) A large shallow vat; a cistern, tub, or trough, used by brewers, distillers, dyers, picklers, gluemakers, and others, for mixing or cooling wort, holding water, hot glue, etc. \ (n.) A ferryboat. See Bac, 1. \ (n.) In human beings, the hinder part of the body, extending from the neck to the end of the spine; in other animals, that part of the body which corresponds most nearly to such part of a human being; as, the back of a horse, fish, or lobster. \ (n.) An extended upper part, as of a mountain or ridge. \ (n.) The outward or upper part of a thing, as opposed to the inner or lower part, the back of the hand, the back of the foot, the back of a hand rail. \ (n.) The part opposed to the front; the hinder or rear part of a thing, the back of a book; the back of an army; the back of a chimney. \ (n.) The part opposite to, or most remote from, that which fronts the speaker or actor; or the part out of sight, or not generally seen, the back of an island, of a hill, or of a village. \ (n.) The part of a cutting tool on the opposite side from its edge, the back of a knife, or of a saw. \ (n.) A support or resource in reserve. \ (n.) The keel and keelson of a ship. \ (n.) The upper part of a lode, or the roof of a horizontal underground passage. \ (n.) A garment for the back; hence, clothing. \ (a.) Being at the back or in the rear; distant; remote, the back door; back settlements. \ (a.) Being in arrear; overdue, back rent. \ (a.) Moving or operating backward, back action. \ (v. i.) To get upon the back of; to mount. \ (v. i.) To place or seat upon the back. \ (v. i.) To drive or force backward; to cause to retreat or recede, to back oxen. \ (v. i.) To make a back for; to furnish with a back, to back books. \ (v. i.) To adjoin behind; to be at the back of. \ (v. i.) To write upon the back of, to back a letter; to indorse, to back a note or legal document. \ (v. i.) To support; to maintain; to second or strengthen by aid or influence, to back a friend. \ (v. i.) To bet on the success of; -- as, to back a race horse. \ (v. i.) To move or go backward, the horse refuses to back. \ (v. i.) To change from one quarter to another by a course opposite to that of the sun; -- used of the wind. \ (v. i.) To stand still behind another dog which has pointed; -- said of a dog. \ (adv.) In, to, or toward, the rear, to stand back; to step back. \ (adv.) To the place from which one came; to the place or person from which something is taken or derived, to go back for something left behind; to go back to one's native place; to put a book back after reading it. \ (adv.) To a former state, condition, or station, to go back to private life; to go back to barbarism. \ (adv.) (Of time) In times past; ago. \ (adv.) Away from contact; by reverse movement. \ (adv.) In concealment or reserve; in one's own possession, to keep back the truth; to keep back part of the money due to another. \ (adv.) In a state of restraint or hindrance.
ins bad ad. wrong; acting against the law; not good \ (imp.) Bade. \ (superl.) Wanting good qualities, whether physical or moral; injurious, hurtful, inconvenient, offensive, painful, unfavorable, or defective, either physically or morally; evil; vicious; wicked; -- the opposite of good; as, a bad man; bad conduct; bad habits; bad soil; bad health; bad crop; bad news. \ of Bid
ins bag (n.) A sack or pouch, used for holding anything; as, a bag of meal or of money. \ (n.) A sac, or dependent gland, in animal bodies, containing some fluid or other substance, the bag of poison in the mouth of some serpents; the bag of a cow. \ (n.) A sort of silken purse formerly tied about men's hair behind, by way of ornament. \ (n.) The quantity of game bagged. \ (n.) A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary to carry to market in a sack, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag of coffee. \ (v. t.) To put into a bag, to bag hops. \ (v. t.) To seize, capture, or entrap, to bag an army; to bag game. \ (v. t.) To furnish or load with a bag or with a well filled bag. \ (v. i.) To swell or hang down like a full bag, the skin bags from containing morbid matter. \ (v. i.) To swell with arrogance. \ (v. i.) To become pregnant.
ins bake (v. t.) To prepare, as food, by cooking in a dry heat, either in an oven or under coals, or on heated stone or metal; as, to bake bread, meat, apples. \ (v. t.) To dry or harden (anything) by subjecting to heat, to bake bricks; the sun bakes the ground. \ (v. t.) To harden by cold. \ (v. i.) To do the work of baking something, she brews, washes, and bakes. \ (v. i.) To be baked; to become dry and hard in heat, the bread bakes; the ground bakes in the hot sun. \ (n.) The process, or result, of baking.
ins baker (v. i.) One whose business it is to bake bread, biscuit, etc. \ (v. i.) A portable oven in which baking is done.
ins ball n. something round \ (n.) Any round or roundish body or mass; a sphere or globe; as, a ball of twine; a ball of snow. \ (n.) A spherical body of any substance or size used to play with, as by throwing, knocking, kicking, etc. \ (n.) A general name for games in which a ball is thrown, kicked, or knocked. See Baseball, and Football. \ (n.) Any solid spherical, cylindrical, or conical projectile of lead or iron, to be discharged from a firearm, a cannon ball; a rifle ball; -- often used collectively, powder and ball. Spherical balls for the smaller firearms are commonly called bullets. \ (n.) A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled with combustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or to produce smoke or stench, a fire ball; a stink ball. \ (n.) A leather-covered cushion, fastened to a handle called a ballstock; -- formerly used by printers for inking the form, but now superseded by the roller. \ (n.) A roundish protuberant portion of some part of the body, the ball of the thumb; the ball of the foot. \ (n.) A large pill, a form in which medicine is commonly given to horses; a bolus. \ (n.) The globe or earth. \ (v. i.) To gather balls which cling to the feet, as of damp snow or clay; to gather into balls, the horse balls; the snow balls. \ (v. t.) To heat in a furnace and form into balls for rolling. \ (v. t.) To form or wind into a ball, to ball cotton. \ (n.) A social assembly for the purpose of dancing. \ (n.) A pitched ball, not struck at by the batsman, which fails to pass over the home base at a height not greater than the batsman's shoulder nor less than his knee.
ins banana (n.) A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musa sapientum); also, its edible fruit. See Musa.
ins bank n. an organization that keeps and lends money \ (n.) A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a tribunal or court. \ (n.) A mound, pile, or ridge of earth, raised above the surrounding level; hence, anything shaped like a mound or ridge of earth; as, a bank of clouds; a bank of snow. \ (n.) A steep acclivity, as the slope of a hill, or the side of a ravine. \ (n.) The margin of a watercourse; the rising ground bordering a lake, river, or sea, or forming the edge of a cutting, or other hollow. \ (n.) An elevation, or rising ground, under the sea; a shoal, shelf, or shallow, the banks of Newfoundland. \ (n.) The face of the coal at which miners are working. \ (n.) A deposit of ore or coal, worked by excavations above water level. \ (n.) The ground at the top of a shaft, ores are brought to bank. \ (v. t.) To raise a mound or dike about; to inclose, defend, or fortify with a bank; to embank. \ (v. t.) To heap or pile up, to bank sand. \ (v. t.) To pass by the banks of. \ (n.) A bench, as for rowers in a galley; also, a tier of oars. \ (n.) The bench or seat upon which the judges sit. \ (n.) The regular term of a court of law, or the full court sitting to hear arguments upon questions of law, as distinguished from a sitting at Nisi Prius, or a court held for jury trials. See Banc. \ (n.) A sort of table used by printers. \ (n.) A bench, or row of keys belonging to a keyboard, as in an organ. \ (n.) An establishment for the custody, loan, exchange, or issue, of money, and for facilitating the transmission of funds by drafts or bills of exchange; an institution incorporated for performing one or more of such functions, or the stockholders (or their representatives, the directors), acting in their corporate capacity. \ (n.) The building or office used for banking purposes. \ (n.) A fund from deposits or contributions, to be used in transacting business; a joint stock or capital. \ (n.) The sum of money or the checks which the dealer or banker has as a fund, from which to draw his stakes and pay his losses. \ (n.) In certain games, as dominos, a fund of pieces from which the players are allowed to draw. \ (v. t.) To deposit in a bank. \ (v. i.) To keep a bank; to carry on the business of a banker. \ (v. i.) To deposit money in a bank; to have an account with a banker. \ (n.) A group or series of objects arranged near together, a bank of electric lamps, etc. \ (n.) The lateral inclination of an aeroplane as it rounds a curve, a bank of 45! is easy; a bank of 90! is dangerous. \ (v. i.) To tilt sidewise in rounding a curve; -- said of a flying machine, an aerocurve, or the like.
ins baseball (n.) A game of ball, so called from the bases or bounds ( four in number) which designate the circuit which each player must endeavor to make after striking the ball. \ (n.) The ball used in this game.
ins basket (n.) A vessel made of osiers or other twigs, cane, rushes, splints, or other flexible material, interwoven. \ (n.) The contents of a basket; as much as a basket contains; as, a basket of peaches. \ (n.) The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital. \ (n.) The two back seats facing one another on the outside of a stagecoach. \ (v. t.) To put into a basket.
ins bat (n.) A large stick; a club; specifically, a piece of wood with one end thicker or broader than the other, used in playing baseball, cricket, etc. \ (n.) Shale or bituminous shale. \ (n.) A sheet of cotton used for filling quilts or comfortables; batting. \ (n.) A part of a brick with one whole end. \ (v. t.) To strike or hit with a bat or a pole; to cudgel; to beat. \ (v. i.) To use a bat, as in a game of baseball. \ (n.) One of the Cheiroptera, an order of flying mammals, in which the wings are formed by a membrane stretched between the elongated fingers, legs, and tail. The common bats are small and insectivorous. See Cheiroptera and Vampire. \ (n.) Same as Tical, n., 1. \ (v. t. & i.) To bate or flutter, as a hawk. \ (v. t. & i.) To wink. \ (n.) In badminton, tennis, and similar games, a racket. \ (n.) A stroke; a sharp blow. \ (n.) A stroke of work. \ (n.) Rate of motion; speed. \ (n.) A spree; a jollification. \ (n.) Manner; rate; condition; state of health.
ins bath (n.) The act of exposing the body, or part of the body, for purposes of cleanliness, comfort, health, etc., to water, vapor, hot air, or the like; as, a cold or a hot bath; a medicated bath; a steam bath; a hip bath. \ (n.) Water or other liquid for bathing. \ (n.) A receptacle or place where persons may immerse or wash their bodies in water. \ (n.) A building containing an apartment or a series of apartments arranged for bathing. \ (n.) A medium, as heated sand, ashes, steam, through which heat is applied to a body. \ (n.) A solution in which plates or prints are immersed; also, the receptacle holding the solution. \ (n.) A Hebrew measure containing the tenth of a homer, or five gallons and three pints, as a measure for liquids; and two pecks and five quarts, as a dry measure. \ (n.) A city in the west of England, resorted to for its hot springs, which has given its name to various objects.
ins be v. to live; to happen; to exist \ (v. i.) To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to have ex/stence. \ (v. i.) To exist in a certain manner or relation, -- whether as a reality or as a product of thought; to exist as the subject of a certain predicate, that is, as having a certain attribute, or as belonging to a certain sort, or as identical with what is specified, -- a word or words for the predicate being annexed; as, to be happy; to be here; to be large, or strong; to be an animal; to be a hero; to be a nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation is the cessation of existence; that is the man. \ (v. i.) To take place, the meeting was on Thursday. \ (v. i.) To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer to.
ins beautiful (a.) Having the qualities which constitute beauty; pleasing to the sight or the mind.
ins because prep. for the reason that ("He left because he was sick.") \ (conj.) By or for the cause that; on this account that; for the reason that. \ (conj.) In order that; that.
ins become v. to come to be \ (p. p.) of Become \ (v. i.) To pass from one state to another; to enter into some state or condition, by a change from another state, or by assuming or receiving new properties or qualities, additional matter, or a new character. \ (v. i.) To come; to get. \ (v. t.) To suit or be suitable to; to be congruous with; to befit; to accord with, in character or circumstances; to be worthy of, or proper for; to cause to appear well; -- said of persons and things.
ins bed n. a sleeping place \ (n.) An article of furniture to sleep or take rest in or on; a couch. Specifically: A sack or mattress, filled with some soft material, in distinction from the bedstead on which it is placed (as, a feather bed), or this with the bedclothes added. In a general sense, any thing or place used for sleeping or reclining on or in, as a quantity of hay, straw, leaves, or twigs. \ (n.) (Used as the symbol of matrimony) Marriage. \ (n.) A plat or level piece of ground in a garden, usually a little raised above the adjoining ground. \ (n.) A mass or heap of anything arranged like a bed; as, a bed of ashes or coals. \ (n.) The bottom of a watercourse, or of any body of water, the bed of a river. \ (n.) A layer or seam, or a horizontal stratum between layers, a bed of coal, iron, etc. \ (n.) See Gun carriage, and Mortar bed. \ (n.) The horizontal surface of a building stone, the upper and lower beds. \ (n.) A course of stone or brick in a wall. \ (n.) The place or material in which a block or brick is laid. \ (n.) The lower surface of a brick, slate, or tile. \ (n.) The foundation or the more solid and fixed part or framing of a machine; or a part on which something is laid or supported, the bed of an engine. \ (n.) The superficial earthwork, or ballast, of a railroad. \ (n.) The flat part of the press, on which the form is laid. \ (v. t.) To place in a bed. \ (v. t.) To make partaker of one's bed; to cohabit with. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a bed or bedding. \ (v. t.) To plant or arrange in beds; to set, or cover, as in a bed of soft earth, to bed the roots of a plant in mold. \ (v. t.) To lay or put in any hollow place, or place of rest and security, surrounded or inclosed; to embed; to furnish with or place upon a bed or foundation, to bed a stone; it was bedded on a rock. \ (v. t.) To dress or prepare the surface of stone) so as to serve as a bed. \ (v. t.) To lay flat; to lay in order; to place in a horizontal or recumbent position. \ (v. i.) To go to bed; to cohabit.
ins bedroom (n.) A room or apartment intended or used for a bed; a lodging room. \ (n.) Room in a bed.
ins beef (n.) An animal of the genus Bos, especially the common species, B. taurus, including the bull, cow, and ox, in their full grown state; esp., an ox or cow fattened for food. \ (n.) The flesh of an ox, or cow, or of any adult bovine animal, when slaughtered for food. \ (n.) Applied colloquially to human flesh. \ (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, beef.
ins been (p. p.) of Be \ The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr. tense plural of Be. See 1st Bee.
ins before prep. earlier \ (prep.) In front of; preceding in space; ahead of; as, to stand before the fire; before the house. \ (prep.) Preceding in time; earlier than; previously to; anterior to the time when; -- sometimes with the additional idea of purpose; in order that. \ (prep.) An advance of; farther onward, in place or time. \ (prep.) Prior or preceding in dignity, order, rank, right, or worth; rather than. \ (prep.) In presence or sight of; face to face with; facing. \ (prep.) Under the cognizance or jurisdiction of. \ (prep.) Open for; free of access to; in the power of. \ (adv.) On the fore part; in front, or in the direction of the front; -- opposed to in the rear. \ (adv.) In advance. \ (adv.) In time past; previously; already. \ (adv.) Earlier; sooner than; until then.
ins begin v. to do the first part of an action; to start \ (v. i.) To have or commence an independent or first existence; to take rise; to commence. \ (v. i.) To do the first act or the first part of an action; to enter upon or commence something new, as a new form or state of being, or course of action; to take the first step; to start. \ (v. t.) To enter on; to commence. \ (v. t.) To trace or lay the foundation of; to make or place a beginning of. \ (n.) Beginning.
ins beginning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Begin \ (n.) The act of doing that which begins anything; commencement of an action, state, or space of time; entrance into being or upon a course; the first act, effort, or state of a succession of acts or states. \ (n.) That which begins or originates something; the first cause; origin; source. \ (n.) That which is begun; a rudiment or element. \ (n.) Enterprise.
ins behind ad. at the back of; in back of \ (a.) On the side opposite the front or nearest part; on the back side of; at the back of; on the other side of; as, behind a door; behind a hill. \ (a.) Left after the departure of, whether this be by removing to a distance or by death. \ (a.) Left a distance by, in progress of improvement Hence: Inferior to in dignity, rank, knowledge, or excellence, or in any achievement. \ (adv.) At the back part; in the rear. \ (adv.) Toward the back part or rear; backward, to look behind. \ (adv.) Not yet brought forward, produced, or exhibited to view; out of sight; remaining. \ (adv.) Backward in time or order of succession; past. \ (adv.) After the departure of another, to stay behind. \ (n.) The backside; the rump.
ins believe v. to think; to feel sure of; to accept as true; to trust \ (n.) To exercise belief in; to credit upon the authority or testimony of another; to be persuaded of the truth of, upon evidence furnished by reasons, arguments, and deductions of the mind, or by circumstances other than personal knowledge; to regard or accept as true; to place confidence in; to think; to consider; as, to believe a person, a statement, or a doctrine. \ (v. i.) To have a firm persuasion, esp. of the truths of religion; to have a persuasion approaching to certainty; to exercise belief or faith. \ (v. i.) To think; to suppose.
ins bell n. an instrument that makes a musical sound ("a church bell") \ (n.) A hollow metallic vessel, usually shaped somewhat like a cup with a flaring mouth, containing a clapper or tongue, and giving forth a ringing sound on being struck. \ (n.) A hollow perforated sphere of metal containing a loose ball which causes it to sound when moved. \ (n.) Anything in the form of a bell, as the cup or corol of a flower. \ (n.) That part of the capital of a column included between the abacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearly cylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital. \ (n.) The strikes of the bell which mark the time; or the time so designated. \ (v. t.) To put a bell upon; as, to bell the cat. \ (v. t.) To make bell-mouthed, to bell a tube. \ (v. i.) To develop bells or corollas; to take the form of a bell; to blossom, hops bell. \ (v. t.) To utter by bellowing. \ (v. i.) To call or bellow, as the deer in rutting time; to make a bellowing sound; to roar.
ins below ad. lower than \ (prep.) Under, or lower in place; beneath not so high; as, below the moon; below the knee. \ (prep.) Inferior to in rank, excellence, dignity, value, amount, price, etc.; lower in quality. \ (prep.) Unworthy of; unbefitting; beneath. \ (adv.) In a lower place, with respect to any object; in a lower room; beneath. \ (adv.) On the earth, as opposed to the heavens. \ (adv.) In hell, or the regions of the dead. \ (adv.) In court or tribunal of inferior jurisdiction, at the trial below. \ (adv.) In some part or page following.
ins bench (n.) A long seat, differing from a stool in its greater length. \ (n.) A long table at which mechanics and other work; as, a carpenter's bench. \ (n.) The seat where judges sit in court. \ (n.) The persons who sit as judges; the court, the opinion of the full bench. See King's Bench. \ (n.) A collection or group of dogs exhibited to the public; -- so named because the animals are usually placed on benches or raised platforms. \ (n.) A conformation like a bench; a long stretch of flat ground, or a kind of natural terrace, near a lake or river. \ (v. t.) To furnish with benches. \ (v. t.) To place on a bench or seat of honor. \ (v. i.) To sit on a seat of justice.
ins beside (n.) At the side of; on one side of. \ (n.) Aside from; out of the regular course or order of; in a state of deviation from; out of. \ (n.) Over and above; distinct from; in addition to. \ (adv.) On one side. \ (adv.) More than that; over and above; not included in the number, or in what has been mentioned; moreover; in addition.
ins best ad. the most good \ (a.) Having good qualities in the highest degree; most good, kind, desirable, suitable, etc.; most excellent; as, the best man; the best road; the best cloth; the best abilities. \ (a.) Most advanced; most correct or complete, the best scholar; the best view of a subject. \ (a.) Most; largest, the best part of a week. \ (n.) Utmost; highest endeavor or state; most nearly perfect thing, or being, or action, to do one's best; to the best of our ability. \ (superl.) In the highest degree; beyond all others. \ (superl.) To the most advantage; with the most success, case, profit, benefit, or propriety. \ (superl.) Most intimately; most thoroughly or correctly, what is expedient is best known to himself. \ (v. t.) To get the better of.
ins better ad. more good than \ (a.) Having good qualities in a greater degree than another; as, a better man; a better physician; a better house; a better air. \ (a.) Preferable in regard to rank, value, use, fitness, acceptableness, safety, or in any other respect. \ (a.) Greater in amount; larger; more. \ (a.) Improved in health; less affected with disease, the patient is better. \ (a.) More advanced; more perfect, upon better acquaintance; a better knowledge of the subject. \ (n.) Advantage, superiority, or victory; -- usually with of, to get the better of an enemy. \ (n.) One who has a claim to precedence; a superior, as in merit, social standing, etc.; -- usually in the plural. \ (compar.) In a superior or more excellent manner; with more skill and wisdom, courage, virtue, advantage, or success, Henry writes better than John; veterans fight better than recruits. \ (compar.) More correctly or thoroughly. \ (compar.) In a higher or greater degree; more, to love one better than another. \ (compar.) More, in reference to value, distance, time, ten miles and better. \ (a.) To improve or ameliorate; to increase the good qualities of. \ (a.) To improve the condition of, morally, physically, financially, socially, or otherwise. \ (a.) To surpass in excellence; to exceed; to excel. \ (a.) To give advantage to; to support; to advance the interest of. \ (v. i.) To become better; to improve. \ (n.) One who bets or lays a wager.
ins between ad. in the space or time that separates; from one to the other ("talks between two nations") \ (prep.) In the space which separates; betwixt; as, New York is between Boston and Philadelphia. \ (prep.) Used in expressing motion from one body or place to another; from one to another of two. \ (prep.) Belonging in common to two; shared by both. \ (prep.) Belonging to, or participated in by, two, and involving reciprocal action or affecting their mutual relation, opposition between science and religion. \ (prep.) With relation to two, as involved in an act or attribute of which another is the agent or subject, to judge between or to choose between courses; to distinguish between you and me; to mediate between nations. \ (prep.) In intermediate relation to, in respect to time, quantity, or degree, between nine and ten o'clock. \ (n.) Intermediate time or space; interval.
ins bicycle (n.) A light vehicle having two wheels one behind the other. It has a saddle seat and is propelled by the rider's feet acting on cranks or levers.
ins big ad. of great size; not small \ (superl.) Having largeness of size; of much bulk or magnitude; of great size; large. \ (superl.) Great with young; pregnant; swelling; ready to give birth or produce; -- often figuratively. \ (superl.) Having greatness, fullness, importance, inflation, distention, etc., whether in a good or a bad sense; as, a big heart; a big voice; big looks; to look big. As applied to looks, it indicates haughtiness or pride. \ (n.) Alt. of Bigg \ (v. t.) Alt. of Bigg
ins bike (n.) A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm.
ins bird n. a creature that flies \ (n.) Orig., a chicken; the young of a fowl; a young eaglet; a nestling; and hence, a feathered flying animal (see 2). \ (n.) A warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate provided with wings. See Aves. \ (n.) Specifically, among sportsmen, a game bird. \ (n.) Fig.: A girl; a maiden. \ (v. i.) To catch or shoot birds. \ (v. i.) Hence: To seek for game or plunder; to thieve.
ins birthday (n.) The day in which any person is born; day of origin or commencement. \ (n.) The day of the month in which a person was born, in whatever succeeding year it may recur; the anniversary of one's birth. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the day of birth, or its anniversary; as, birthday gifts or festivities.
ins black ad. dark; having the color like that of the night sky \ (a.) Destitute of light, or incapable of reflecting it; of the color of soot or coal; of the darkest or a very dark color, the opposite of white; characterized by such a color; as, black cloth; black hair or eyes. \ (a.) In a less literal sense: Enveloped or shrouded in darkness; very dark or gloomy, a black night; the heavens black with clouds. \ (a.) Fig.: Dismal, gloomy, or forbidding, like darkness; destitute of moral light or goodness; atrociously wicked; cruel; mournful; calamitous; horrible. \ (a.) Expressing menace, or discontent; threatening; sullen; foreboding, to regard one with black looks. \ (adv.) Sullenly; threateningly; maliciously; so as to produce blackness. \ (n.) That which is destitute of light or whiteness; the darkest color, or rather a destitution of all color, a cloth has a good black. \ (n.) A black pigment or dye. \ (n.) A negro; a person whose skin is of a black color, or shaded with black; esp. a member or descendant of certain African races. \ (n.) A black garment or dress, she wears black \ (n.) Mourning garments of a black color; funereal drapery. \ (n.) The part of a thing which is distinguished from the rest by being black. \ (n.) A stain; a spot; a smooch. \ (a.) To make black; to blacken; to soil; to sully. \ (a.) To make black and shining, as boots or a stove, by applying blacking and then polishing with a brush.
ins blackboard (n.) A broad board painted black, or any black surface on which writing, drawing, or the working of mathematical problems can be done with chalk or crayons. It is much used in schools.
ins blow v. to move with force, as in air ("The wind blows.") \ (v. i.) To flower; to blossom; to bloom. \ (v. t.) To cause to blossom; to put forth (blossoms or flowers). \ (n.) A blossom; a flower; also, a state of blossoming; a mass of blossoms. \ (n.) A forcible stroke with the hand, fist, or some instrument, as a rod, a club, an ax, or a sword. \ (n.) A sudden or forcible act or effort; an assault. \ (n.) The infliction of evil; a sudden calamity; something which produces mental, physical, or financial suffering or loss (esp. when sudden); a buffet. \ (v. i.) To produce a current of air; to move, as air, esp. to move rapidly or with power; as, the wind blows. \ (v. i.) To send forth a forcible current of air, as from the mouth or from a pair of bellows. \ (v. i.) To breathe hard or quick; to pant; to puff. \ (v. i.) To sound on being blown into, as a trumpet. \ (v. i.) To spout water, etc., from the blowholes, as a whale. \ (v. i.) To be carried or moved by the wind, the dust blows in from the street. \ (v. i.) To talk loudly; to boast; to storm. \ (v. t.) To force a current of air upon with the mouth, or by other means, to blow the fire. \ (v. t.) To drive by a current air; to impel, the tempest blew the ship ashore. \ (v. t.) To cause air to pass through by the action of the mouth, or otherwise; to cause to sound, as a wind instrument, to blow a trumpet; to blow an organ. \ (v. t.) To clear of contents by forcing air through, to blow an egg; to blow one's nose. \ (v. t.) To burst, shatter, or destroy by an explosion; -- usually with up, down, open, or similar adverb, to blow up a building. \ (v. t.) To spread by report; to publish; to disclose. \ (v. t.) To form by inflation; to swell by injecting air, to blow bubbles; to blow glass. \ (v. t.) To inflate, as with pride; to puff up. \ (v. t.) To put out of breath; to cause to blow from fatigue, to blow a horse. \ (v. t.) To deposit eggs or larvae upon, or in (meat, etc.). \ (n.) A blowing, esp., a violent blowing of the wind; a gale, a heavy blow came on, and the ship put back to port. \ (n.) The act of forcing air from the mouth, or through or from some instrument, to give a hard blow on a whistle or horn; to give the fire a blow with the bellows. \ (n.) The spouting of a whale. \ (n.) A single heat or operation of the Bessemer converter. \ (n.) An egg, or a larva, deposited by a fly on or in flesh, or the act of depositing it.
ins blue ad. having the color like that of a clear sky \ (superl.) Having the color of the clear sky, or a hue resembling it, whether lighter or darker; as, the deep, blue sea; as blue as a sapphire; blue violets. \ (superl.) Pale, without redness or glare, -- said of a flame; hence, of the color of burning brimstone, betokening the presence of ghosts or devils, the candle burns blue; the air was blue with oaths. \ (superl.) Low in spirits; melancholy, to feel blue. \ (superl.) Suited to produce low spirits; gloomy in prospect, thongs looked blue. \ (superl.) Severe or over strict in morals; gloom, blue and sour religionists; suiting one who is over strict in morals; inculcating an impracticable, severe, or gloomy mortality, blue laws. \ (superl.) Literary; -- applied to women; -- an abbreviation of bluestocking. \ (n.) One of the seven colors into which the rays of light divide themselves, when refracted through a glass prism; the color of the clear sky, or a color resembling that; a pigment having such color. Sometimes, poetically, the sky. \ (n.) A pedantic woman; a bluestocking. \ (pl.) Low spirits; a fit of despondency; melancholy. \ (v. t.) To make blue; to dye of a blue color; to make blue by heating, as metals, etc.
ins boat n. something built to travel on water that carries people or goods \ (n.) A small open vessel, or water craft, usually moved by cars or paddles, but often by a sail. \ (n.) Hence, any vessel; usually with some epithet descriptive of its use or mode of propulsion; as, pilot boat, packet boat, passage boat, advice boat, etc. The term is sometimes applied to steam vessels, even of the largest class, the Cunard boats. \ (n.) A vehicle, utensil, or dish, somewhat resembling a boat in shape, a stone boat; a gravy boat. \ (v. t.) To transport in a boat, to boat goods. \ (v. t.) To place in a boat, to boat oars. \ (v. i.) To go or row in a boat.
ins body n. all of a person or animal; the remains of a person or animal \ (n.) The material organized substance of an animal, whether living or dead, as distinguished from the spirit, or vital principle; the physical person. \ (n.) The trunk, or main part, of a person or animal, as distinguished from the limbs and head; the main, central, or principal part, as of a tree, army, country, etc. \ (n.) The real, as opposed to the symbolical; the substance, as opposed to the shadow. \ (n.) A person; a human being; -- frequently in composition; as, anybody, nobody. \ (n.) A number of individuals spoken of collectively, usually as united by some common tie, or as organized for some purpose; a collective whole or totality; a corporation, a legislative body; a clerical body. \ (n.) A number of things or particulars embodied in a system; a general collection, a great body of facts; a body of laws or of divinity. \ (n.) Any mass or portion of matter; any substance distinct from others, a metallic body; a moving body; an aeriform body. \ (n.) Amount; quantity; extent. \ (n.) That part of a garment covering the body, as distinguished from the parts covering the limbs. \ (n.) The bed or box of a vehicle, on or in which the load is placed, a wagon body; a cart body. \ (n.) The shank of a type, or the depth of the shank (by which the size is indicated), a nonpareil face on an agate body. \ (n.) A figure that has length, breadth, and thickness; any solid figure. \ (n.) Consistency; thickness; substance; strength, this color has body; wine of a good body. \ (v. t.) To furnish with, or as with, a body; to produce in definite shape; to embody. \ (n.) The central, longitudinal framework of a flying machine, to which are attached the planes or aerocurves, passenger accommodations, controlling and propelling apparatus, fuel tanks, etc.
ins book n. a long written work for reading \ (n.) A collection of sheets of paper, or similar material, blank, written, or printed, bound together; commonly, many folded and bound sheets containing continuous printing or writing. \ (n.) A composition, written or printed; a treatise. \ (n.) A part or subdivision of a treatise or literary work; as, the tenth book of "Paradise Lost." \ (n.) A volume or collection of sheets in which accounts are kept; a register of debts and credits, receipts and expenditures, etc. \ (n.) Six tricks taken by one side, in the game of whist; in certain other games, two or more corresponding cards, forming a set. \ (v. t.) To enter, write, or register in a book or list. \ (v. t.) To enter the name of (any one) in a book for the purpose of securing a passage, conveyance, or seat, to be booked for Southampton; to book a seat in a theater. \ (v. t.) To mark out for; to destine or assign for, he is booked for the valedictory.
ins boot (n.) Remedy; relief; amends; reparation; hence, one who brings relief. \ (n.) That which is given to make an exchange equal, or to make up for the deficiency of value in one of the things exchanged. \ (n.) Profit; gain; advantage; use. \ (v. t.) To profit; to advantage; to avail; -- generally followed by it; as, what boots it? \ (v. t.) To enrich; to benefit; to give in addition. \ (n.) A covering for the foot and lower part of the leg, ordinarily made of leather. \ (n.) An instrument of torture for the leg, formerly used to extort confessions, particularly in Scotland. \ (n.) A place at the side of a coach, where attendants rode; also, a low outside place before and behind the body of the coach. \ (n.) A place for baggage at either end of an old-fashioned stagecoach. \ (n.) An apron or cover (of leather or rubber cloth) for the driving seat of a vehicle, to protect from rain and mud. \ (n.) The metal casing and flange fitted about a pipe where it passes through a roof. \ (v. t.) To put boots on, esp. for riding. \ (v. t.) To punish by kicking with a booted foot. \ (v. i.) To boot one's self; to put on one's boots. \ (n.) Booty; spoil.
ins born v. to come to life; to come into existence \ (p. p.) of Bear \ (v. t.) Brought forth, as an animal; brought into life; introduced by birth. \ (v. t.) Having from birth a certain character; by or from birth; by nature; innate; as, a born liar.
ins both ad. not just one of two, but the two together \ (a. or pron.) The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of either. \ (conj.) As well; not only; equally.
ins bottle n. a container, usually made of glass, to hold liquid \ (n.) A hollow vessel, usually of glass or earthenware (but formerly of leather), with a narrow neck or mouth, for holding liquids. \ (n.) The contents of a bottle; as much as a bottle contains; as, to drink a bottle of wine. \ (n.) Fig.: Intoxicating liquor, to drown one's reason in the bottle. \ (v. t.) To put into bottles; to inclose in, or as in, a bottle or bottles; to keep or restrain as in a bottle, to bottle wine or porter; to bottle up one's wrath. \ (n.) A bundle, esp. of hay.
ins box n. something to put things into; a container, usually made of paper or wood \ (n.) A tree or shrub, flourishing in different parts of the world. The common box (Buxus sempervirens) has two varieties, one of which, the dwarf box (B. suffruticosa), is much used for borders in gardens. The wood of the tree varieties, being very hard and smooth, is extensively used in the arts, as by turners, engravers, mathematical instrument makers, etc. \ (n.) A receptacle or case of any firm material and of various shapes. \ (n.) The quantity that a box contain. \ (n.) A space with a few seats partitioned off in a theater, or other place of public amusement. \ (n.) A chest or any receptacle for the deposit of money; as, a poor box; a contribution box. \ (n.) A small country house. \ (n.) A boxlike shed for shelter, a sentry box. \ (n.) An axle box, journal box, journal bearing, or bushing. \ (n.) A chamber or section of tube in which a valve works; the bucket of a lifting pump. \ (n.) The driver's seat on a carriage or coach. \ (n.) A present in a box; a present; esp. a Christmas box or gift. \ (n.) The square in which the pitcher stands. \ (n.) A Mediterranean food fish; the bogue. \ (v. t.) To inclose in a box. \ (v. t.) To furnish with boxes, as a wheel. \ (v. t.) To inclose with boarding, lathing, etc., so as to bring to a required form. \ (n.) A blow on the head or ear with the hand. \ (v. i.) To fight with the fist; to combat with, or as with, the hand or fist; to spar. \ (v. t.) To strike with the hand or fist, especially to strike on the ear, or on the side of the head. \ (v. t.) To boxhaul.
ins boy n. a young male person \ (n.) A male child, from birth to the age of puberty; a lad; hence, a son. \ (v. t.) To act as a boy; -- in allusion to the former practice of boys acting women's parts on the stage. \ (n.) In various countries, a male servant, laborer, or slave of a native or inferior race; also, any man of such a race.
ins bread n. a food made from grain \ (a.) To spread. \ (n.) An article of food made from flour or meal by moistening, kneading, and baking. \ (n.) Food; sustenance; support of life, in general. \ (v. t.) To cover with bread crumbs, preparatory to cooking; as, breaded cutlets.
ins break v. to divide into parts by force; to destroy \ (v. t.) To strain apart; to sever by fracture; to divide with violence; as, to break a rope or chain; to break a seal; to break an axle; to break rocks or coal; to break a lock. \ (v. t.) To lay open as by breaking; to divide, to break a package of goods. \ (v. t.) To lay open, as a purpose; to disclose, divulge, or communicate. \ (v. t.) To infringe or violate, as an obligation, law, or promise. \ (v. t.) To interrupt; to destroy the continuity of; to dissolve or terminate, to break silence; to break one's sleep; to break one's journey. \ (v. t.) To destroy the completeness of; to remove a part from, to break a set. \ (v. t.) To destroy the arrangement of; to throw into disorder; to pierce, the cavalry were not able to break the British squares. \ (v. t.) To shatter to pieces; to reduce to fragments. \ (v. t.) To exchange for other money or currency of smaller denomination, to break a five dollar bill. \ (v. t.) To destroy the strength, firmness, or consistency of, to break flax. \ (v. t.) To weaken or impair, as health, spirit, or mind. \ (v. t.) To diminish the force of; to lessen the shock of, as a fall or blow. \ (v. t.) To impart, as news or information; to broach; -- with to, and often with a modified word implying some reserve, to break the news gently to the widow; to break a purpose cautiously to a friend. \ (v. t.) To tame; to reduce to subjection; to make tractable; to discipline, to break a horse to the harness or saddle. \ (v. t.) To destroy the financial credit of; to make bankrupt; to ruin. \ (v. t.) To destroy the official character and standing of; to cashier; to dismiss. \ (v. i.) To come apart or divide into two or more pieces, usually with suddenness and violence; to part; to burst asunder. \ (v. i.) To open spontaneously, or by pressure from within, as a bubble, a tumor, a seed vessel, a bag. \ (v. i.) To burst forth; to make its way; to come to view; to appear; to dawn. \ (v. i.) To burst forth violently, as a storm. \ (v. i.) To open up; to be scattered; to be dissipated, the clouds are breaking. \ (v. i.) To become weakened in constitution or faculties; to lose health or strength. \ (v. i.) To be crushed, or overwhelmed with sorrow or grief, my heart is breaking. \ (v. i.) To fall in business; to become bankrupt. \ (v. i.) To make an abrupt or sudden change; to change the gait, to break into a run or gallop. \ (v. i.) To fail in musical quality, a singer's voice breaks when it is strained beyond its compass and a tone or note is not completed, but degenerates into an unmusical sound instead. Also, to change in tone, as a boy's voice at puberty. \ (v. i.) To fall out; to terminate friendship. \ (v. t.) An opening made by fracture or disruption. \ (v. t.) An interruption of continuity; change of direction, a break in a wall; a break in the deck of a ship. \ (v. t.) A projection or recess from the face of a building. \ (n.) See Commutator.
ins breakfast (n.) The first meal in the day, or that which is eaten at the first meal. \ (n.) A meal after fasting, or food in general. \ (v. i.) To break one's fast in the morning; too eat the first meal in the day. \ (v. t.) To furnish with breakfast.
ins bridge n. a structure built over a waterway, valley or road so people and vehicles can cross from one side to the other \ (n.) A structure, usually of wood, stone, brick, or iron, erected over a river or other water course, or over a chasm, railroad, etc., to make a passageway from one bank to the other. \ (n.) Anything supported at the ends, which serves to keep some other thing from resting upon the object spanned, as in engraving, watchmaking, or which forms a platform or staging over which something passes or is conveyed. \ (n.) The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of a violin, guitar, serving of raise them and transmit their vibrations to the body of the instrument. \ (n.) A device to measure the resistance of a wire or other conductor forming part of an electric circuit. \ (n.) A low wall or vertical partition in the fire chamber of a furnace, for deflecting flame; -- usually called a bridge wall. \ (v. t.) To build a bridge or bridges on or over; as, to bridge a river. \ (v. t.) To open or make a passage, as by a bridge. \ (v. t.) To find a way of getting over, as a difficulty; -- generally with over. \ (n.) A card game resembling whist.
ins bring v. to come with something \ (v. t.) To convey to the place where the speaker is or is to be; to bear from a more distant to a nearer place; to fetch. \ (v. t.) To cause the accession or obtaining of; to procure; to make to come; to produce; to draw to. \ (v. t.) To convey; to move; to carry or conduct. \ (v. t.) To persuade; to induce; to draw; to lead; to guide. \ (v. t.) To produce in exchange; to sell for; to fetch; as, what does coal bring per ton?
ins brother n. a male with the same father or mother as another person \ (n.) A male person who has the same father and mother with another person, or who has one of them only. In the latter case he is more definitely called a half brother, or brother of the half blood. \ (n.) One related or closely united to another by some common tie or interest, as of rank, profession, membership in a society, toil, suffering, etc.; -- used among judges, clergymen, monks, physicians, lawyers, professors of religion, etc. \ (n.) One who, or that which, resembles another in distinctive qualities or traits of character. \ (v. t.) To make a brother of; to call or treat as a brother; to admit to a brotherhood.
ins brown ad. having the color like that of coffee \ (superl.) Of a dark color, of various shades between black and red or yellow. \ (n.) A dark color inclining to red or yellow, resulting from the mixture of red and black, or of red, black, and yellow; a tawny, dusky hue. \ (v. t.) To make brown or dusky. \ (v. t.) To make brown by scorching slightly; as, to brown meat or flour. \ (v. t.) To give a bright brown color to, as to gun barrels, by forming a thin coat of oxide on their surface. \ (v. i.) To become brown.
ins build v. to join materials together to make something \ (v. t.) To erect or construct, as an edifice or fabric of any kind; to form by uniting materials into a regular structure; to fabricate; to make; to raise. \ (v. t.) To raise or place on a foundation; to form, establish, or produce by using appropriate means. \ (v. t.) To increase and strengthen; to increase the power and stability of; to settle, or establish, and preserve; -- frequently with up; as, to build up one's constitution. \ (v. i.) To exercise the art, or practice the business, of building. \ (v. i.) To rest or depend, as on a foundation; to ground one's self or one's hopes or opinions upon something deemed reliable; to rely, to build on the opinions or advice of others. \ (n.) Form or mode of construction; general figure; make, the build of a ship.
ins building n. anything built for use as a house, factory, office, school, store or place of entertainment \ (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Build \ (n.) The act of constructing, erecting, or establishing. \ (n.) The art of constructing edifices, or the practice of civil architecture. \ (n.) That which is built; a fabric or edifice constructed, as a house, a church, etc.
ins bus n. a public vehicle to carry people \ (n.) An omnibus.
ins business n. one's work; buying and selling to earn money; trade \ (n.) That which busies one, or that which engages the time, attention, or labor of any one, as his principal concern or interest, whether for a longer or shorter time; constant employment; regular occupation; as, the business of life; business before pleasure. \ (n.) Any particular occupation or employment engaged in for livelihood or gain, as agriculture, trade, art, or a profession. \ (n.) Financial dealings; buying and selling; traffic in general; mercantile transactions. \ (n.) That which one has to do or should do; special service, duty, or mission. \ (n.) Affair; concern; matter; -- used in an indefinite sense, and modified by the connected words. \ (n.) The position, distribution, and order of persons and properties on the stage of a theater, as determined by the stage manager in rehearsal. \ (n.) Care; anxiety; diligence.
ins busy ad. doing something; very active \ (a.) Engaged in some business; hard at work (either habitually or only for the time being); occupied with serious affairs; not idle nor at leisure; as, a busy merchant. \ (a.) Constantly at work; diligent; active. \ (a.) Crowded with business or activities; -- said of places and times, a busy street. \ (a.) Officious; meddling; foolish active. \ (a.) Careful; anxious. \ (v. t.) To make or keep busy; to employ; to engage or keep engaged; to occupy, to busy one's self with books.
ins but conj. however; other than; yet \ (adv. & conj.) Except with; unless with; without. \ (adv. & conj.) Except; besides; save. \ (adv. & conj.) Excepting or excluding the fact that; save that; were it not that; unless; -- elliptical, for but that. \ (adv. & conj.) Otherwise than that; that not; -- commonly, after a negative, with that. \ (adv. & conj.) Only; solely; merely. \ (adv. & conj.) On the contrary; on the other hand; only; yet; still; however; nevertheless; more; further; -- as connective of sentences or clauses of a sentence, in a sense more or less exceptive or adversative; as, the House of Representatives passed the bill, but the Senate dissented; our wants are many, but quite of another kind. \ (prep., adv. & conj.) The outer apartment or kitchen of a two-roomed house; -- opposed to ben, the inner room. \ (n.) A limit; a boundary. \ (n.) The end; esp. the larger or thicker end, or the blunt, in distinction from the sharp, end. See 1st Butt. \ (v. i.) See Butt, v., and Abut, v. \ (v. t.) A limit; a bound; a goal; the extreme bound; the end. \ (v. t.) The thicker end of anything. See But. \ (v. t.) A mark to be shot at; a target. \ (v. t.) A person at whom ridicule, jest, or contempt is directed, the butt of the company. \ (v. t.) A push, thrust, or sudden blow, given by the head of an animal, the butt of a ram. \ (v. t.) A thrust in fencing. \ (v. t.) A piece of land left unplowed at the end of a field. \ (v. t.) A joint where the ends of two objects come squarely together without scarfing or chamfering; -- also called butt joint. \ (v. t.) The end of a connecting rod or other like piece, to which the boxing is attached by the strap, cotter, and gib. \ (v. t.) The portion of a half-coupling fastened to the end of a hose. \ (v. t.) The joint where two planks in a strake meet. \ (v. t.) A kind of hinge used in hanging doors, etc.; -- so named because fastened on the edge of the door, which butts against the casing, instead of on its face, like the strap hinge; also called butt hinge. \ (v. t.) The thickest and stoutest part of tanned oxhides, used for soles of boots, harness, trunks. \ (v. t.) The hut or shelter of the person who attends to the targets in rifle practice.
ins butter (n.) An oily, unctuous substance obtained from cream or milk by churning. \ (n.) Any substance resembling butter in degree of consistence, or other qualities, especially, in old chemistry, the chlorides, as butter of antimony, sesquichloride of antimony; also, certain concrete fat oils remaining nearly solid at ordinary temperatures, as butter of cacao, vegetable butter, shea butter. \ (v. t.) To cover or spread with butter. \ (v. t.) To increase, as stakes, at every throw or every game. \ (n.) One who, or that which, butts.
ins buy v. to get by paying something, usually money \ (v. t.) To acquire the ownership of (property) by giving an accepted price or consideration therefor, or by agreeing to do so; to acquire by the payment of a price or value; to purchase; -- opposed to sell. \ (v. t.) To acquire or procure by something given or done in exchange, literally or figuratively; to get, at a cost or sacrifice; to buy pleasure with pain. \ (v. i.) To negotiate or treat about a purchase.
ins by conj. near; at; next to ("by the road"); from ("a play by William Shakespeare"); not later than ("by midnight") \ (pref.) In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to; along with; as, come and sit by me. \ (pref.) On; along; in traversing. Compare 5. \ (pref.) Near to, while passing; hence, from one to the other side of; past, to go by a church. \ (pref.) Used in specifying adjacent dimensions, a cabin twenty feet by forty. \ (pref.) Against. \ (pref.) With, as means, way, process, etc.; through means of; with aid of; through; through the act or agency of, a city is destroyed by fire; profit is made by commerce; to take by force. \ (adv.) Near; in the neighborhood; present, there was no person by at the time. \ (adv.) Passing near; going past; beyond, the procession has gone by; a bird flew by. \ (adv.) Aside, to lay by; to put by. \ (a.) Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest
ins bye (n.) A thing not directly aimed at; something which is a secondary object of regard; an object by the way, etc.; as in on or upon the bye, i. e., in passing; indirectly; by implication. \ (n.) A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye. \ (n.) A dwelling. \ (n.) In certain games, a station or place of an individual player. \ (n.) In various sports in which the contestants are drawn in pairs, the position or turn of one left with no opponent in consequence of an odd number being engaged, to draw a bye in a round of a tennis tournament. \ (n.) The hole or holes of a stipulated course remaining unplayed at the end of a match.
ins cafe (n.) A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or restaurant where coffee and liquors are served.
ins cake (n.) A small mass of dough baked; especially, a thin loaf from unleavened dough; as, an oatmeal cake; johnnycake. \ (n.) A sweetened composition of flour and other ingredients, leavened or unleavened, baked in a loaf or mass of any size or shape. \ (n.) A thin wafer-shaped mass of fried batter; a griddlecake or pancake; as buckwheat cakes. \ (n.) A mass of matter concreted, congealed, or molded into a solid mass of any form, esp. into a form rather flat than high, a cake of soap; an ague cake. \ (v. i.) To form into a cake, or mass. \ (v. i.) To concrete or consolidate into a hard mass, as dough in an oven; to coagulate. \ (v. i.) To cackle as a goose.
ins calendar (n.) An orderly arrangement of the division of time, adapted to the purposes of civil life, as years, months, weeks, and days; also, a register of the year with its divisions; an almanac. \ (n.) A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints' days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly according to the varying date of Easter. \ (n.) An orderly list or enumeration of persons, things, or events; a schedule; as, a calendar of state papers; a calendar of bills presented in a legislative assembly; a calendar of causes arranged for trial in court; a calendar of a college or an academy. \ (v. t.) To enter or write in a calendar; to register.
ins call v. to give a name to ("I call myself John."); to ask for or request ("They called for an end to the fighting.") \ (v. t.) To command or request to come or be present; to summon; as, to call a servant. \ (v. t.) To summon to the discharge of a particular duty; to designate for an office, or employment, especially of a religious character; -- often used of a divine summons, to be called to the ministry; sometimes, to invite, to call a minister to be the pastor of a church. \ (v. t.) To invite or command to meet; to convoke; -- often with together, the President called Congress together; to appoint and summon, to call a meeting of the Board of Aldermen. \ (v. t.) To give name to; to name; to address, or speak of, by a specifed name. \ (v. t.) To regard or characterize as of a certain kind; to denominate; to designate. \ (v. t.) To state, or estimate, approximately or loosely; to characterize without strict regard to fact, they call the distance ten miles; he called it a full day's work. \ (v. t.) To show or disclose the class, character, or nationality of. \ (v. t.) To utter in a loud or distinct voice; -- often with off, to call, or call off, the items of an account; to call the roll of a military company. \ (v. t.) To invoke; to appeal to. \ (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to awaken. \ (v. i.) To speak in loud voice; to cry out; to address by name; -- sometimes with to. \ (v. i.) To make a demand, requirement, or request. \ (v. i.) To make a brief visit; also, to stop at some place designated, as for orders. \ (n.) The act of calling; -- usually with the voice, but often otherwise, as by signs, the sound of some instrument, or by writing; a summons; an entreaty; an invitation, a call for help; the bugle's call. \ (n.) A signal, as on a drum, bugle, trumpet, or pipe, to summon soldiers or sailors to duty. \ (n.) An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as its pastor. \ (n.) A requirement or appeal arising from the circumstances of the case; a moral requirement or appeal. \ (n.) A divine vocation or summons. \ (n.) Vocation; employment. \ (n.) A short visit, to make a call on a neighbor, the daily coming of a tradesman to solicit orders. \ (n.) A note blown on the horn to encourage the hounds. \ (n.) A whistle or pipe, used by the boatswain and his mate, to summon the sailors to duty. \ (n.) The cry of a bird; also a noise or cry in imitation of a bird; or a pipe to call birds by imitating their note or cry. \ (n.) A reference to, or statement of, an object, course, distance, or other matter of description in a survey or grant requiring or calling for a corresponding object, etc., on the land. \ (n.) The privilege to demand the delivery of stock, grain, or any commodity, at a fixed, price, at or within a certain time agreed on. \ (n.) See Assessment, 4.
ins camera n. a device for taking pictures \ (n.) A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: The camera obscura when used in photography. See Camera, and Camera obscura.
ins camp n. a place with temporary housing \ (n.) The ground or spot on which tents, huts, etc., are erected for shelter, as for an army or for lumbermen \ (n.) A collection of tents, for shelter, commonly arranged in an orderly manner. \ (n.) A single hut or shelter; as, a hunter's camp. \ (n.) The company or body of persons encamped, as of soldiers, of surveyors, of lumbermen, etc. \ (n.) A mound of earth in which potatoes and other vegetables are stored for protection against frost; -- called also burrow and pie. \ (n.) An ancient game of football, played in some parts of England. \ (v. t.) To afford rest or lodging for, as an army or travelers. \ (v. i.) To pitch or prepare a camp; to encamp; to lodge in a camp; -- often with out. \ (n.) To play the game called camp.
ins can v. to be able to; to have the right to; n. a container used to hold liquid or food, usually made of metal \ an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used in old poetry. [See Gan.] \ (n.) A drinking cup; a vessel for holding liquids. \ (n.) A vessel or case of tinned iron or of sheet metal, of various forms, but usually cylindrical; as, a can of tomatoes; an oil can; a milk can. \ (v. t.) To preserve by putting in sealed cans \ (v. t. & i.) To know; to understand. \ (v. t. & i.) To be able to do; to have power or influence. \ (v. t. & i.) To be able; -- followed by an infinitive without to, I can go, but do not wish to.
ins candy (v. t.) To conserve or boil in sugar; as, to candy fruits; to candy ginger. \ (v. t.) To make sugar crystals of or in; to form into a mass resembling candy, to candy sirup. \ (v. t.) To incrust with sugar or with candy, or with that which resembles sugar or candy. \ (v. i.) To have sugar crystals form in or on, fruits preserved in sugar candy after a time. \ (v. i.) To be formed into candy; to solidify in a candylike form or mass. \ (v. t.) A more or less solid article of confectionery made by boiling sugar or molasses to the desired consistency, and than crystallizing, molding, or working in the required shape. It is often flavored or colored, and sometimes contains fruit, nuts, etc. \ (n.) A weight, at Madras 500 pounds, at Bombay 560 pounds.
ins captain (n.) A head, or chief officer \ (n.) The military officer who commands a company, troop, or battery, or who has the rank entitling him to do so though he may be employed on other service. \ (n.) An officer in the United States navy, next above a commander and below a commodore, and ranking with a colonel in the army. \ (n.) By courtesy, an officer actually commanding a vessel, although not having the rank of captain. \ (n.) The master or commanding officer of a merchant vessel. \ (n.) One in charge of a portion of a ship's company; as, a captain of a top, captain of a gun, etc. \ (n.) The foreman of a body of workmen. \ (n.) A person having authority over others acting in concert, the captain of a boat's crew; the captain of a football team. \ (n.) A military leader; a warrior. \ (v. t.) To act as captain of; to lead. \ (a.) Chief; superior.
ins car n. a vehicle with wheels used to carry people; an automobile; a part of a train \ (n.) A small vehicle moved on wheels; usually, one having but two wheels and drawn by one horse; a cart. \ (n.) A vehicle adapted to the rails of a railroad. \ (n.) A chariot of war or of triumph; a vehicle of splendor, dignity, or solemnity. \ (n.) The stars also called Charles's Wain, the Great Bear, or the Dipper. \ (n.) The cage of a lift or elevator. \ (n.) The basket, box, or cage suspended from a balloon to contain passengers, ballast, etc. \ (n.) A floating perforated box for living fish.
ins card (n.) A piece of pasteboard, or thick paper, blank or prepared for various uses; as, a playing card; a visiting card; a card of invitation; pl. a game played with cards. \ (n.) A published note, containing a brief statement, explanation, request, expression of thanks, or the like, to put a card in the newspapers. Also, a printed programme, and (fig.), an attraction or inducement, this will be a good card for the last day of the fair. \ (n.) A paper on which the points of the compass are marked; the dial or face of the mariner's compass. \ (n.) A perforated pasteboard or sheet-metal plate for warp threads, making part of the Jacquard apparatus of a loom. See Jacquard. \ (n.) An indicator card. See under Indicator. \ (v. i.) To play at cards; to game. \ (n.) An instrument for disentangling and arranging the fibers of cotton, wool, flax, etc.; or for cleaning and smoothing the hair of animals; -- usually consisting of bent wire teeth set closely in rows in a thick piece of leather fastened to a back. \ (n.) A roll or sliver of fiber (as of wool) delivered from a carding machine. \ (v. t.) To comb with a card; to cleanse or disentangle by carding, to card wool; to card a horse. \ (v. t.) To clean or clear, as if by using a card. \ (v. t.) To mix or mingle, as with an inferior or weaker article.
ins careful ad. acting safely; with much thought \ (a.) Full of care; anxious; solicitous. \ (a.) Filling with care or solicitude; exposing to concern, anxiety, or trouble; painful. \ (a.) Taking care; giving good heed; watchful; cautious; provident; not indifferent, heedless, or reckless; -- often followed by of, for, or the infinitive; as, careful of money; careful to do right.
ins carry v. to take something or someone from one place to another \ (v. t.) To convey or transport in any manner from one place to another; to bear; -- often with away or off. \ (v. t.) To have or hold as a burden, while moving from place to place; to have upon or about one's person; as, to carry a wound; to carry an unborn child. \ (v. t.) To move; to convey by force; to impel; to conduct; to lead or guide. \ (v. t.) To transfer from one place (as a country, book, or column) to another, to carry the war from Greece into Asia; to carry an account to the ledger; to carry a number in adding figures. \ (v. t.) To convey by extension or continuance; to extend, to carry the chimney through the roof; to carry a road ten miles farther. \ (v. t.) To bear or uphold successfully through conflict, as a leader or principle; hence, to succeed in, as in a contest; to bring to a successful issue; to win, to carry an election. \ (v. t.) To get possession of by force; to capture. \ (v. t.) To contain; to comprise; to bear the aspect of ; to show or exhibit; to imply. \ (v. t.) To bear (one's self); to behave, to conduct or demean; -- with the reflexive pronouns. \ (v. t.) To bear the charges or burden of holding or having, as stocks, merchandise, etc., from one time to another, a merchant is carrying a large stock; a farm carries a mortgage; a broker carries stock for a customer; to carry a life insurance. \ (v. i.) To act as a bearer; to convey anything, to fetch and carry. \ (v. i.) To have propulsive power; to propel, a gun or mortar carries well. \ (v. i.) To hold the head; -- said of a horse, to carry well i. e., to hold the head high, with arching neck. \ (v. i.) To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as a hare. \ (n.) A tract of land, over which boats or goods are carried between two bodies of navigable water; a carrying place; a portage.
ins case (n.) A box, sheath, or covering; as, a case for holding goods; a case for spectacles; the case of a watch; the case (capsule) of a cartridge; a case (cover) for a book. \ (n.) A box and its contents; the quantity contained in a box, a case of goods; a case of instruments. \ (n.) A shallow tray divided into compartments or "boxes" for holding type. \ (n.) An inclosing frame; a casing, a door case; a window case. \ (n.) A small fissure which admits water to the workings. \ (v. t.) To cover or protect with, or as with, a case; to inclose. \ (v. t.) To strip the skin from, to case a box. \ (n.) Chance; accident; hap; opportunity. \ (n.) That which befalls, comes, or happens; an event; an instance; a circumstance, or all the circumstances; condition; state of things; affair, a strange case; a case of injustice; the case of the Indian tribes. \ (n.) A patient under treatment; an instance of sickness or injury, ten cases of fever; also, the history of a disease or injury. \ (n.) The matters of fact or conditions involved in a suit, as distinguished from the questions of law; a suit or action at law; a cause. \ (n.) One of the forms, or the inflections or changes of form, of a noun, pronoun, or adjective, which indicate its relation to other words, and in the aggregate constitute its declension; the relation which a noun or pronoun sustains to some other word. \ (v. i.) To propose hypothetical cases.
ins cat n. a small animal that often lives with humans \ (n.) An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx. The domestic cat is Felis domestica. The European wild cat (Felis catus) is much larger than the domestic cat. In the United States the name wild cat is commonly applied to the bay lynx (Lynx rufus) See Wild cat, and Tiger cat. \ (n.) A strong vessel with a narrow stern, projecting quarters, and deep waist. It is employed in the coal and timber trade. \ (n.) A strong tackle used to draw an anchor up to the cathead of a ship. \ (n.) A double tripod (for holding a plate, etc.), having six feet, of which three rest on the ground, in whatever position in is placed. \ (n.) An old game; (a) The game of tipcat and the implement with which it is played. See Tipcat. (c) A game of ball, called, according to the number of batters, one old cat, two old cat, etc. \ (n.) A cat o' nine tails. See below. \ (v. t.) To bring to the cathead; as, to cat an anchor. See Anchor.
ins catch v. to seize after a chase; to stop and seize with the hands \ (v. t.) To lay hold on; to seize, especially with the hand; to grasp (anything) in motion, with the effect of holding; as, to catch a ball. \ (v. t.) To seize after pursuing; to arrest, to catch a thief. \ (v. t.) To take captive, as in a snare or net, or on a hook, to catch a bird or fish. \ (v. t.) Hence: To insnare; to entangle. \ (v. t.) To seize with the senses or the mind; to apprehend, to catch a melody. \ (v. t.) To communicate to; to fasten upon, the fire caught the adjoining building. \ (v. t.) To engage and attach; to please; to charm. \ (v. t.) To get possession of; to attain. \ (v. t.) To take or receive; esp. to take by sympathy, contagion, infection, or exposure, to catch the spirit of an occasion; to catch the measles or smallpox; to catch cold; the house caught fire. \ (v. t.) To come upon unexpectedly or by surprise; to find, to catch one in the act of stealing. \ (v. t.) To reach in time; to come up with, to catch a train. \ (v. i.) To attain possession. \ (v. i.) To be held or impeded by entanglement or a light obstruction, a kite catches in a tree; a door catches so as not to open. \ (v. i.) To take hold, the bolt does not catch. \ (v. i.) To spread by, or as by, infecting; to communicate. \ (n.) Act of seizing; a grasp. \ (n.) That by which anything is caught or temporarily fastened, the catch of a gate. \ (n.) The posture of seizing; a state of preparation to lay hold of, or of watching he opportunity to seize, to lie on the catch. \ (n.) That which is caught or taken; profit; gain; especially, the whole quantity caught or taken at one time, a good catch of fish. \ (n.) Something desirable to be caught, esp. a husband or wife in matrimony. \ (n.) Passing opportunities seized; snatches. \ (n.) A slight remembrance; a trace. \ (n.) A humorous canon or round, so contrived that the singers catch up each other's words.
ins center n. the middle of something; the place in the middle; a place that is the main point of an activity \ (n.) A point equally distant from the extremities of a line, figure, or body, or from all parts of the circumference of a circle; the middle point or place. \ (n.) The middle or central portion of anything. \ (n.) A principal or important point of concentration; the nucleus around which things are gathered or to which they tend; an object of attention, action, or force; as, a center of attaction. \ (n.) The earth. \ (n.) Those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who support the existing government. They sit in the middle of the legislative chamber, opposite the presiding officer, between the conservatives or monarchists, who sit on the right of the speaker, and the radicals or advanced republicans who occupy the seats on his left, See Right, and Left. \ (n.) A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault or arch are supported in position until the work becomes self-supporting. \ (n.) One of the two conical steel pins, in a lathe, etc., upon which the work is held, and about which it revolves. \ (n.) A conical recess, or indentation, in the end of a shaft or other work, to receive the point of a center, on which the work can turn, as in a lathe. \ (v. i.) Alt. of Centre \ (v. t.) Alt. of Centre \ Alt. of seal \ Alt. of punch
ins certain (a.) Assured in mind; having no doubts; free from suspicions concerning. \ (a.) Determined; resolved; -- used with an infinitive. \ (a.) Not to be doubted or denied; established as a fact. \ (a.) Actually existing; sure to happen; inevitable. \ (a.) Unfailing; infallible. \ (a.) Fixed or stated; regular; determinate. \ (a.) Not specifically named; indeterminate; indefinite; one or some; -- sometimes used independenty as a noun, and meaning certain persons. \ (n.) Certainty. \ (n.) A certain number or quantity. \ (adv.) Certainly.
ins chair (n.) A movable single seat with a back. \ (n.) An official seat, as of a chief magistrate or a judge, but esp. that of a professor; hence, the office itself. \ (n.) The presiding officer of an assembly; a chairman; as, to address the chair. \ (n.) A vehicle for one person; either a sedan borne upon poles, or two-wheeled carriage, drawn by one horse; a gig. \ (n.) An iron block used on railways to support the rails and secure them to the sleepers. \ (v. t.) To place in a chair. \ (v. t.) To carry publicly in a chair in triumph.
ins chalk (n.) A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowish white color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the same composition as common limestone. \ (n.) Finely prepared chalk, used as a drawing implement; also, by extension, a compound, as of clay and black lead, or the like, used in the same manner. See Crayon. \ (v. t.) To rub or mark with chalk. \ (v. t.) To manure with chalk, as land. \ (v. t.) To make white, as with chalk; to make pale; to bleach.
ins chance n. a possibility of winning or losing or that something will happen \ (n.) A supposed material or psychical agent or mode of activity other than a force, law, or purpose; fortune; fate; -- in this sense often personified. \ (n.) The operation or activity of such agent. \ (n.) The supposed effect of such an agent; something that befalls, as the result of unknown or unconsidered forces; the issue of uncertain conditions; an event not calculated upon; an unexpected occurrence; a happening; accident; fortuity; casualty. \ (n.) A possibility; a likelihood; an opportunity; -- with reference to a doubtful result; as, a chance to escape; a chance for life; the chances are all against him. \ (n.) Probability. \ (v. i.) To happen, come, or arrive, without design or expectation. \ (v. t.) To take the chances of; to venture upon; -- usually with it as object. \ (v. t.) To befall; to happen to. \ (a.) Happening by chance; casual. \ (adv.) By chance; perchance.
ins change v. to make different; to become different \ (v. t.) To alter; to make different; to cause to pass from one state to another; as, to change the position, character, or appearance of a thing; to change the countenance. \ (v. t.) To alter by substituting something else for, or by giving up for something else, to change the clothes; to change one's occupation; to change one's intention. \ (v. t.) To give and take reciprocally; to exchange; -- followed by with, to change place, or hats, or money, with another. \ (v. t.) Specifically: To give, or receive, smaller denominations of money (technically called change) for, to change a gold coin or a bank bill. \ (v. i.) To be altered; to undergo variation, men sometimes change for the better. \ (v. i.) To pass from one phase to another, the moon changes to-morrow night. \ (v. t.) Any variation or alteration; a passing from one state or form to another, a change of countenance; a change of habits or principles. \ (v. t.) A succesion or substitution of one thing in the place of another; a difference; novelty; variety, a change of seasons. \ (v. t.) A passing from one phase to another, a change of the moon. \ (v. t.) Alteration in the order of a series; permutation. \ (v. t.) That which makes a variety, or may be substituted for another. \ (v. t.) Small money; the money by means of which the larger coins and bank bills are made available in small dealings; hence, the balance returned when payment is tendered by a coin or note exceeding the sum due. \ (v. t.) A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; a building appropriated for mercantile transactions. \ (v. t.) A public house; an alehouse. \ (v. t.) Any order in which a number of bells are struck, other than that of the diatonic scale.
ins cheap (n.) A bargain; a purchase; cheapness. \ (n.) Having a low price in market; of small cost or price, as compared with the usual price or the real value. \ (n.) Of comparatively small value; common; mean. \ (adv.) Cheaply. \ (v. i.) To buy; to bargain.
ins cheese (n.) The curd of milk, coagulated usually with rennet, separated from the whey, and pressed into a solid mass in a hoop or mold. \ (n.) A mass of pomace, or ground apples, pressed together in the form of a cheese. \ (n.) The flat, circular, mucilaginous fruit of the dwarf mallow (Malva rotundifolia). \ (n.) A low courtesy; -- so called on account of the cheese form assumed by a woman's dress when she stoops after extending the skirts by a rapid gyration.
ins chicken (n.) A young bird or fowl, esp. a young barnyard fowl. \ (n.) A young person; a child; esp. a young woman; a maiden.
ins chief n. the head or leader of a group; ad. leading; most important \ (n.) The head or leader of any body of men; a commander, as of an army; a head man, as of a tribe, clan, or family; a person in authority who directs the work of others; the principal actor or agent. \ (n.) The principal part; the most valuable portion. \ (n.) The upper third part of the field. It is supposed to be composed of the dexter, sinister, and middle chiefs. \ (a.) Highest in office or rank; principal; head. \ (a.) Principal or most eminent in any quality or action; most distinguished; having most influence; taking the lead; most important; as, the chief topic of conversation; the chief interest of man. \ (a.) Very intimate, near, or close.
ins child n. a baby; a boy or girl \ (n.) A son or a daughter; a male or female descendant, in the first degree; the immediate progeny of human parents; -- in law, legitimate offspring. Used also of animals and plants. \ (n.) A descendant, however remote; -- used esp. in the plural; as, the children of Israel; the children of Edom. \ (n.) One who, by character of practice, shows signs of relationship to, or of the influence of, another; one closely connected with a place, occupation, character, etc., a child of God; a child of the devil; a child of disobedience; a child of toil; a child of the people. \ (n.) A noble youth. See Childe. \ (n.) A young person of either sex. esp. one between infancy and youth; hence, one who exhibits the characteristics of a very young person, as innocence, obedience, trustfulness, limited understanding, etc. \ (n.) A female infant. \ (v. i.) To give birth; to produce young.
ins children n. more than one child \ (pl. ) of Child \ (n.) pl. of Child.
ins chocolate (n.) A paste or cake composed of the roasted seeds of the Theobroma Cacao ground and mixed with other ingredients, usually sugar, and cinnamon or vanilla. \ (n.) The beverage made by dissolving a portion of the paste or cake in boiling water or milk.
ins choose v. to decide between two or more \ (v. t.) To make choice of; to select; to take by way of preference from two or more objects offered; to elect; as, to choose the least of two evils. \ (v. t.) To wish; to desire; to prefer. \ (v. i.) To make a selection; to decide. \ (v. i.) To do otherwise.
ins church (n.) A building set apart for Christian worship. \ (n.) A Jewish or heathen temple. \ (n.) A formally organized body of Christian believers worshiping together. \ (n.) A body of Christian believers, holding the same creed, observing the same rites, and acknowledging the same ecclesiastical authority; a denomination; as, the Roman Catholic church; the Presbyterian church. \ (n.) The collective body of Christians. \ (n.) Any body of worshipers, the Jewish church; the church of Brahm. \ (n.) The aggregate of religious influences in a community; ecclesiastical influence, authority, etc., to array the power of the church against some moral evil. \ (v. t.) To bless according to a prescribed form, or to unite with in publicly returning thanks in church, as after deliverance from the dangers of childbirth, the churching of women.
ins circle n. a closed shape that has all its points equally distant from the center, like an "O" \ (n.) A plane figure, bounded by a single curve line called its circumference, every part of which is equally distant from a point within it, called the center. \ (n.) The line that bounds such a figure; a circumference; a ring. \ (n.) An instrument of observation, the graduated limb of which consists of an entire circle. \ (n.) A round body; a sphere; an orb. \ (n.) Compass; circuit; inclosure. \ (n.) A company assembled, or conceived to assemble, about a central point of interest, or bound by a common tie; a class or division of society; a coterie; a set. \ (n.) A circular group of persons; a ring. \ (n.) A series ending where it begins, and repeating itself. \ (n.) A form of argument in which two or more unproved statements are used to prove each other; inconclusive reasoning. \ (n.) Indirect form of words; circumlocution. \ (n.) A territorial division or district. \ (n.) To move around; to revolve around. \ (n.) To encompass, as by a circle; to surround; to inclose; to encircle. \ (v. i.) To move circularly; to form a circle; to circulate.
ins city n. any important large town \ (n.) A large town. \ (n.) A corporate town; in the United States, a town or collective body of inhabitants, incorporated and governed by a mayor and aldermen or a city council consisting of a board of aldermen and a common council; in Great Britain, a town corporate, which is or has been the seat of a bishop, or the capital of his see. \ (n.) The collective body of citizens, or inhabitants of a city. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a city.
ins class (n.) A group of individuals ranked together as possessing common characteristics; as, the different classes of society; the educated class; the lower classes. \ (n.) A number of students in a school or college, of the same standing, or pursuing the same studies. \ (n.) A comprehensive division of animate or inanimate objects, grouped together on account of their common characteristics, in any classification in natural science, and subdivided into orders, families, tribes, genera, etc. \ (n.) A set; a kind or description, species or variety. \ (n.) One of the sections into which a church or congregation is divided, and which is under the supervision of a class leader. \ (n.) To arrange in classes; to classify or refer to some class, to class words or passages. \ (n.) To divide into classes, as students; to form into, or place in, a class or classes. \ (v. i.) To grouped or classed.
ins classmate (n.) One who is in the same class with another, as at school or college.
ins clean v. to make pure; ad. free from dirt or harmful substances ("clean water") \ (superl.) Free from dirt or filth; as, clean clothes. \ (superl.) Free from that which is useless or injurious; without defects, clean land; clean timber. \ (superl.) Free from awkwardness; not bungling; adroit; dexterous, aclean trick; a clean leap over a fence. \ (superl.) Free from errors and vulgarisms, a clean style. \ (superl.) Free from restraint or neglect; complete; entire. \ (superl.) Free from moral defilement; sinless; pure. \ (superl.) Free from ceremonial defilement. \ (superl.) Free from that which is corrupting to the morals; pure in tone; healthy. \ (superl.) Well-proportioned; shapely, clean limbs. \ (adv.) Without limitation or remainder; quite; perfectly; wholly; entirely. \ (adv.) Without miscarriage; not bunglingly; dexterously. \ (a.) To render clean; to free from whatever is foul, offensive, or extraneous; to purify; to cleanse.
ins clear ad. easy to see or see through; easily understood \ (superl.) Free from opaqueness; transparent; bright; light; luminous; unclouded. \ (superl.) Free from ambiguity or indistinctness; lucid; perspicuous; plain; evident; manifest; indubitable. \ (superl.) Able to perceive clearly; keen; acute; penetrating; discriminating; as, a clear intellect; a clear head. \ (superl.) Not clouded with passion; serene; cheerful. \ (superl.) Easily or distinctly heard; audible; canorous. \ (superl.) Without mixture; entirely pure, clear sand. \ (superl.) Without defect or blemish, such as freckles or knots, a clear complexion; clear lumber. \ (superl.) Free from guilt or stain; unblemished. \ (superl.) Without diminution; in full; net, clear profit. \ (superl.) Free from impediment or obstruction; unobstructed, a clear view; to keep clear of debt. \ (superl.) Free from embarrassment; detention, etc. \ (n.) Full extent; distance between extreme limits; especially; the distance between the nearest surfaces of two bodies, or the space between walls, a room ten feet square in the clear. \ (adv.) In a clear manner; plainly. \ (adv.) Without limitation; wholly; quite; entirely, to cut a piece clear off. \ (v. t.) To render bright, or undimmed; to free from clouds. \ (v. t.) To free from impurities; to clarify; to cleanse. \ (v. t.) To free from obscurity or ambiguity; to relive of perplexity; to make perspicuous. \ (v. t.) To render more quick or acute, as the understanding; to make perspicacious. \ (v. t.) To free from impediment or incumbrance, from defilement, or from anything injurious, useless, or offensive, to clear land of trees or brushwood, or from stones; to clear the sight or the voice; to clear one's self from debt; -- often used with of, off, away, or out. \ (v. t.) To free from the imputation of guilt; to justify, vindicate, or acquit; -- often used with from before the thing imputed. \ (v. t.) To leap or pass by, or over, without touching or failure, to clear a hedge; to clear a reef. \ (v. t.) To gain without deduction; to net. \ (v. i.) To become free from clouds or fog; to become fair; -- often followed by up, or away. \ (v. i.) To disengage one's self from incumbrances, distress, or entanglements; to become free. \ (v. i.) To make exchanges of checks and bills, and settle balances, as is done in a clearing house. \ (v. i.) To obtain a clearance, the steamer cleared for Liverpool to-day.
ins clever (a.) Possessing quickness of intellect, skill, dexterity, talent, or adroitness; expert. \ (a.) Showing skill or adroitness in the doer or former; as, a clever speech; a clever trick. \ (a.) Having fitness, propriety, or suitableness. \ (a.) Well-shaped; handsome. \ (a.) Good-natured; obliging.
ins climb v. to go up or down something by using the feet and sometimes the hands \ (v. i.) To ascend or mount laboriously, esp. by use of the hands and feet. \ (v. i.) To ascend as if with effort; to rise to a higher point. \ (v. i.) To ascend or creep upward by twining about a support, or by attaching itself by tendrils, rootlets, etc., to a support or upright surface. \ (v. t.) To ascend, as by means of the hands and feet, or laboriously or slowly; to mount. \ (n.) The act of one who climbs; ascent by climbing.
ins clock n. a device that measures and shows time \ (n.) A machine for measuring time, indicating the hour and other divisions by means of hands moving on a dial plate. Its works are moved by a weight or a spring, and it is often so constructed as to tell the hour by the stroke of a hammer on a bell. It is not adapted, like the watch, to be carried on the person. \ (n.) A watch, esp. one that strikes. \ (n.) The striking of a clock. \ (n.) A figure or figured work on the ankle or side of a stocking. \ (v. t.) To ornament with figured work, as the side of a stocking. \ (v. t. & i.) To call, as a hen. See Cluck. \ (n.) A large beetle, esp. the European dung beetle (Scarabaeus stercorarius).
ins close v. to make something not open; ad. near to \ (n.) To stop, or fill up, as an opening; to shut; as, to close the eyes; to close a door. \ (n.) To bring together the parts of; to consolidate, to close the ranks of an army; -- often used with up. \ (n.) To bring to an end or period; to conclude; to complete; to finish; to end; to consummate, to close a bargain; to close a course of instruction. \ (n.) To come or gather around; to inclose; to encompass; to confine. \ (v. i.) To come together; to unite or coalesce, as the parts of a wound, or parts separated. \ (v. i.) To end, terminate, or come to a period, the debate closed at six o'clock. \ (v. i.) To grapple; to engage in hand-to-hand fight. \ (n.) The manner of shutting; the union of parts; junction. \ (n.) Conclusion; cessation; ending; end. \ (n.) A grapple in wrestling. \ (n.) The conclusion of a strain of music; cadence. \ (n.) A double bar marking the end. \ (v. t.) An inclosed place; especially, a small field or piece of land surrounded by a wall, hedge, or fence of any kind; -- specifically, the precinct of a cathedral or abbey. \ (v. t.) A narrow passage leading from a street to a court, and the houses within. \ (v. t.) The interest which one may have in a piece of ground, even though it is not inclosed. \ (v. t.) Shut fast; closed; tight, a close box. \ (v. t.) Narrow; confined, a close alley; close quarters. \ (v. t.) Oppressive; without motion or ventilation; causing a feeling of lassitude; -- said of the air, weather, etc. \ (v. t.) Strictly confined; carefully quarded, a close prisoner. \ (v. t.) Out of the way observation; secluded; secret; hidden. \ (v. t.) Disposed to keep secrets; secretive; reticent. \ (v. t.) Having the parts near each other; dense; solid; compact; as applied to bodies; viscous; tenacious; not volatile, as applied to liquids. \ (v. t.) Concise; to the point, close reasoning. \ (v. t.) Adjoining; near; either in space; time, or thought; -- often followed by to. \ (v. t.) Short, to cut grass or hair close. \ (v. t.) Intimate; familiar; confidential. \ (v. t.) Nearly equal; almost evenly balanced, a close vote. \ (v. t.) Difficult to obtain, money is close. \ (v. t.) Parsimonious; stingy. \ (v. t.) Adhering strictly to a standard or original; exact; strict, a close translation. \ (v. t.) Accurate; careful; precise; also, attentive; undeviating; not wandering, a close observer. \ (v. t.) Uttered with a relatively contracted opening of the mouth, as certain sounds of e and o in French, Italian, and German; -- opposed to open. \ (adv.) In a close manner. \ (adv.) Secretly; darkly.
ins clothes n. what people wear \ (pl. ) of Cloth \ (n. pl.) Covering for the human body; dress; vestments; vesture; -- a general term for whatever covering is worn, or is made to be worn, for decency or comfort. \ (n. pl.) The covering of a bed; bedclothes.
ins cloud n. a mass of fog high in the sky \ (n.) A collection of visible vapor, or watery particles, suspended in the upper atmosphere. \ (n.) A mass or volume of smoke, or flying dust, resembling vapor. \ (n.) A dark vein or spot on a lighter material, as in marble; hence, a blemish or defect; as, a cloud upon one's reputation; a cloud on a title. \ (n.) That which has a dark, lowering, or threatening aspect; that which temporarily overshadows, obscures, or depresses, a cloud of sorrow; a cloud of war; a cloud upon the intellect. \ (n.) A great crowd or multitude; a vast collection. \ (n.) A large, loosely-knitted scarf, worn by women about the head. \ (v. t.) To overspread or hide with a cloud or clouds, the sky is clouded. \ (v. t.) To darken or obscure, as if by hiding or enveloping with a cloud, to render gloomy or sullen. \ (v. t.) To blacken; to sully; to stain; to tarnish; to damage; -- esp. used of reputation or character. \ (v. t.) To mark with, or darken in, veins or sports; to variegate with colors, to cloud yarn. \ (v. i.) To grow cloudy; to become obscure with clouds; -- often used with up.
ins cloudy (n.) Overcast or obscured with clouds; clouded; as, a cloudy sky. \ (n.) Consisting of a cloud or clouds. \ (n.) Indicating gloom, anxiety, sullenness, or ill-nature; not open or cheerful. \ (n.) Confused; indistinct; obscure; dark. \ (n.) Lacking clearness, brightness, or luster. \ (n.) Marked with veins or sports of dark or various hues, as marble.
ins club (n.) A heavy staff of wood, usually tapering, and wielded the hand; a weapon; a cudgel. \ (n.) Any card of the suit of cards having a figure like the trefoil or clover leaf. (pl.) The suit of cards having such figure. \ (n.) An association of persons for the promotion of some common object, as literature, science, politics, good fellowship, etc.; esp. an association supported by equal assessments or contributions of the members. \ (n.) A joint charge of expense, or any person's share of it; a contribution to a common fund. \ (v. t.) To beat with a club. \ (v. t.) To throw, or allow to fall, into confusion. \ (v. t.) To unite, or contribute, for the accomplishment of a common end; as, to club exertions. \ (v. t.) To raise, or defray, by a proportional assesment, to club the expense. \ (v. i.) To form a club; to combine for the promotion of some common object; to unite. \ (v. i.) To pay on equal or proportionate share of a common charge or expense; to pay for something by contribution. \ (v. i.) To drift in a current with an anchor out.
ins coat (n.) An outer garment fitting the upper part of the body; especially, such a garment worn by men. \ (n.) A petticoat. \ (n.) The habit or vesture of an order of men, indicating the order or office; cloth. \ (n.) An external covering like a garment, as fur, skin, wool, husk, or bark; as, the horses coats were sleek. \ (n.) A layer of any substance covering another; a cover; a tegument, the coats of the eye; the coats of an onion; a coat of tar or varnish. \ (n.) Same as Coat of arms. See below. \ (n.) A coat card. See below. \ (v. t.) To cover with a coat or outer garment. \ (v. t.) To cover with a layer of any substance, to coat a jar with tin foil; to coat a ceiling.
ins coffee n. a drink made from the plant of the same name \ (n.) The "beans" or "berries" (pyrenes) obtained from the drupes of a small evergreen tree of the genus Coffea, growing in Abyssinia, Arabia, Persia, and other warm regions of Asia and Africa, and also in tropical America. \ (n.) The coffee tree. \ (n.) The beverage made from the roasted and ground berry.
ins cold ad. not warm; having or feeling great coolness or a low temperature \ (n.) Deprived of heat, or having a low temperature; not warm or hot; gelid; frigid. \ (n.) Lacking the sensation of warmth; suffering from the absence of heat; chilly; shivering; as, to be cold. \ (n.) Not pungent or acrid. \ (n.) Wanting in ardor, intensity, warmth, zeal, or passion; spiritless; unconcerned; reserved. \ (n.) Unwelcome; disagreeable; unsatisfactory. \ (n.) Wanting in power to excite; dull; uninteresting. \ (n.) Affecting the sense of smell (as of hunting dogs) but feebly; having lost its odor, a cold scent. \ (n.) Not sensitive; not acute. \ (n.) Distant; -- said, in the game of hunting for some object, of a seeker remote from the thing concealed. \ (n.) Having a bluish effect. Cf. Warm, 8. \ (n.) The relative absence of heat or warmth. \ (n.) The sensation produced by the escape of heat; chilliness or chillness. \ (n.) A morbid state of the animal system produced by exposure to cold or dampness; a catarrh. \ (v. i.) To become cold.
ins college n. a small university \ (n.) A collection, body, or society of persons engaged in common pursuits, or having common duties and interests, and sometimes, by charter, peculiar rights and privileges; as, a college of heralds; a college of electors; a college of bishops. \ (n.) A society of scholars or friends of learning, incorporated for study or instruction, esp. in the higher branches of knowledge, the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge Universities, and many American colleges. \ (n.) A building, or number of buildings, used by a college. \ (n.) Fig.: A community.
ins color n. the different effects of light on the eye, making blue, red, brown, black, yellow and others \ (n.) A property depending on the relations of light to the eye, by which individual and specific differences in the hues and tints of objects are apprehended in vision; as, gay colors; sad colors, etc. \ (n.) Any hue distinguished from white or black. \ (n.) The hue or color characteristic of good health and spirits; ruddy complexion. \ (n.) That which is used to give color; a paint; a pigment, oil colors or water colors. \ (n.) That which covers or hides the real character of anything; semblance; excuse; disguise; appearance. \ (n.) Shade or variety of character; kind; species. \ (n.) A distinguishing badge, as a flag or similar symbol (usually in the plural), the colors or color of a ship or regiment; the colors of a race horse (that is, of the cap and jacket worn by the jockey). \ (n.) An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave to the plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially, thus removing the cause from the jury to the court. \ (v. t.) To change or alter the hue or tint of, by dyeing, staining, painting, etc.; to dye; to tinge; to paint; to stain. \ (v. t.) To change or alter, as if by dyeing or painting; to give a false appearance to; usually, to give a specious appearance to; to cause to appear attractive; to make plausible; to palliate or excuse, the facts were colored by his prejudices. \ (v. t.) To hide. \ (v. i.) To acquire color; to turn red, especially in the face; to blush.
ins come v. to move toward; to arrive \ (p. p.) of Come \ (n.) To move hitherward; to draw near; to approach the speaker, or some place or person indicated; -- opposed to go. \ (n.) To complete a movement toward a place; to arrive. \ (n.) To approach or arrive, as if by a journey or from a distance. \ (n.) To approach or arrive, as the result of a cause, or of the act of another. \ (n.) To arrive in sight; to be manifest; to appear. \ (n.) To get to be, as the result of change or progress; -- with a predicate; as, to come untied. \ (v. t.) To carry through; to succeed in, you can't come any tricks here. \ (n.) Coming.
ins company n. a business organized for trade, industrial or other purposes \ (n.) The state of being a companion or companions; the act of accompanying; fellowship; companionship; society; friendly intercourse. \ (n.) A companion or companions. \ (n.) An assemblage or association of persons, either permanent or transient. \ (n.) Guests or visitors, in distinction from the members of a family; as, to invite company to dine. \ (n.) Society, in general; people assembled for social intercourse. \ (n.) An association of persons for the purpose of carrying on some enterprise or business; a corporation; a firm, the East India Company; an insurance company; a joint-stock company. \ (n.) Partners in a firm whose names are not mentioned in its style or title; -- often abbreviated in writing, Hottinguer & Co. \ (n.) A subdivision of a regiment of troops under the command of a captain, numbering in the United States (full strength) 100 men. \ (n.) The crew of a ship, including the officers, a whole ship's company. \ (n.) The body of actors employed in a theater or in the production of a play. \ (v. t.) To accompany or go with; to be companion to. \ (v. i.) To associate. \ (v. i.) To be a gay companion. \ (v. i.) To have sexual commerce.
ins cook v. to heat food before eating it \ (v. i.) To make the noise of the cuckoo. \ (v. t.) To throw. \ (n.) One whose occupation is to prepare food for the table; one who dresses or cooks meat or vegetables for eating. \ (n.) A fish, the European striped wrasse. \ (v. t.) To prepare, as food, by boiling, roasting, baking, broiling, etc.; to make suitable for eating, by the agency of fire or heat. \ (v. t.) To concoct or prepare; hence, to tamper with or alter; to garble; -- often with up; as, to cook up a story; to cook an account. \ (v. i.) To prepare food for the table.
ins cookie (n.) See Cooky.
ins cool ad. almost cold \ (superl.) Moderately cold; between warm and cold; lacking in warmth; producing or promoting coolness. \ (superl.) Not ardent, warm, fond, or passionate; not hasty; deliberate; exercising self-control; self-possessed; dispassionate; indifferent; as, a cool lover; a cool debater. \ (superl.) Not retaining heat; light, a cool dress. \ (superl.) Manifesting coldness or dislike; chilling; apathetic, a cool manner. \ (superl.) Quietly impudent; negligent of propriety in matters of minor importance, either ignorantly or willfully; presuming and selfish; audacious, cool behavior. \ (superl.) Applied facetiously, in a vague sense, to a sum of money, commonly as if to give emphasis to the largeness of the amount. \ (n.) A moderate state of cold; coolness; -- said of the temperature of the air between hot and cold, the cool of the day; the cool of the morning or evening. \ (v. t.) To make cool or cold; to reduce the temperature of, ice cools water. \ (v. t.) To moderate the heat or excitement of; to allay, as passion of any kind; to calm; to moderate. \ (v. i.) To become less hot; to lose heat. \ (v. i.) To lose the heat of excitement or passion; to become more moderate.
ins corner (n.) The point where two converging lines meet; an angle, either external or internal. \ (n.) The space in the angle between converging lines or walls which meet in a point; as, the chimney corner. \ (n.) An edge or extremity; the part farthest from the center; hence, any quarter or part. \ (n.) A secret or secluded place; a remote or out of the way place; a nook. \ (n.) Direction; quarter. \ (n.) The state of things produced by a combination of persons, who buy up the whole or the available part of any stock or species of property, which compels those who need such stock or property to buy of them at their own price, a corner in a railway stock. \ (v. t.) To drive into a corner. \ (v. t.) To drive into a position of great difficulty or hopeless embarrassment, to corner a person in argument. \ (v. t.) To get command of (a stock, commodity, etc.), so as to be able to put one's own price on it, to corner the shares of a railroad stock; to corner petroleum. \ (n.) A free kick from close to the nearest corner flag post, allowed to the opposite side when a player has sent the ball behind his own goal line.
ins could (imp.) of Can \ (imp.) Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible. Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditional present.
ins count v. to speak or add numbers \ (v. t.) To tell or name one by one, or by groups, for the purpose of ascertaining the whole number of units in a collection; to number; to enumerate; to compute; to reckon. \ (v. t.) To place to an account; to ascribe or impute; to consider or esteem as belonging. \ (v. t.) To esteem; to account; to reckon; to think, judge, or consider. \ (v. i.) To number or be counted; to possess value or carry weight; hence, to increase or add to the strength or influence of some party or interest; as, every vote counts; accidents count for nothing. \ (v. i.) To reckon; to rely; to depend; -- with on or upon. \ (v. i.) To take account or note; -- with \ (v. i.) To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count. \ (v. t.) The act of numbering; reckoning; also, the number ascertained by counting. \ (v. t.) An object of interest or account; value; estimation. \ (v. t.) A formal statement of the plaintiff's case in court; in a more technical and correct sense, a particular allegation or charge in a declaration or indictment, separately setting forth the cause of action or prosecution. \ (n.) A nobleman on the continent of Europe, equal in rank to an English earl.
ins country n. a nation; the territory of a nation; land away from cities \ (adv.) A tract of land; a region; the territory of an independent nation; (as distinguished from any other region, and with a personal pronoun) the region of one's birth, permanent residence, or citizenship. \ (adv.) Rural regions, as opposed to a city or town. \ (adv.) The inhabitants or people of a state or a region; the populace; the public. Hence: (a) One's constituents. (b) The whole body of the electors of state; as, to dissolve Parliament and appeal to the country. \ (adv.) A jury, as representing the citizens of a country. \ (adv.) The inhabitants of the district from which a jury is drawn. \ (adv.) The rock through which a vein runs. \ (a.) Pertaining to the regions remote from a city; rural; rustic, a country life; a country town; the country party, as opposed to city. \ (a.) Destitute of refinement; rude; unpolished; not urbane, country manners. \ (a.) Pertaining, or peculiar, to one's own country.
ins cover v. to put something over a person or thing; n. anything that is put over a person or thing \ (v. t.) To overspread the surface of (one thing) with another; as, to cover wood with paint or lacquer; to cover a table with a cloth. \ (v. t.) To envelop; to clothe, as with a mantle or cloak. \ (v. t.) To invest (one's self with something); to bring upon (one's self), he covered himself with glory. \ (v. t.) To hide sight; to conceal; to cloak, the enemy were covered from our sight by the woods. \ (v. t.) To brood or sit on; to incubate. \ (v. t.) To shelter, as from evil or danger; to protect; to defend, the cavalry covered the retreat. \ (v. t.) To remove from remembrance; to put away; to remit. \ (v. t.) To extend over; to be sufficient for; to comprehend, include, or embrace; to account for or solve; to counterbalance, a mortgage which fully covers a sum loaned on it; a law which covers all possible cases of a crime; receipts than do not cover expenses. \ (v. t.) To put the usual covering or headdress on. \ (v. t.) To copulate with (a female); to serve, a horse covers a mare; -- said of the male. \ (n.) Anything which is laid, set, or spread, upon, about, or over, another thing; an envelope; a lid, the cover of a book. \ (n.) Anything which veils or conceals; a screen; disguise; a cloak. \ (n.) Shelter; protection, the troops fought under cover of the batteries; the woods afforded a good cover. \ (n.) The woods, underbrush, etc., which shelter and conceal game; covert, to beat a cover; to ride to cover. \ (n.) The lap of a slide valve. \ (n.) A tablecloth, and the other table furniture; esp., the table furniture for the use of one person at a meal, covers were laid for fifty guests. \ (v. i.) To spread a table for a meal; to prepare a banquet.
ins cow n. a farm animal used for its milk \ (n.) A chimney cap; a cowl \ (n.) The mature female of bovine animals. \ (n.) The female of certain large mammals, as whales, seals, etc. \ (v. t.) To depress with fear; to daunt the spirits or courage of; to overawe. \ (n.) A wedge, or brake, to check the motion of a machine or car; a chock.
ins cry v. to express or show sorrow or pain \ (v. i.) To make a loud call or cry; to call or exclaim vehemently or earnestly; to shout; to vociferate; to proclaim; to pray; to implore. \ (v. i.) To utter lamentations; to lament audibly; to express pain, grief, or distress, by weeping and sobbing; to shed tears; to bawl, as a child. \ (v. i.) To utter inarticulate sounds, as animals. \ (v. t.) To utter loudly; to call out; to sound abroad; to declare publicly. \ (v. t.) To cause to do something, or bring to some state, by crying or weeping; as, to cry one's self to sleep. \ (v. t.) To make oral and public proclamation of; to declare publicly; to notify or advertise by outcry, especially things lost or found, goods to be sold, ets., to cry goods, etc. \ (v. t.) to publish the banns of, as for marriage. \ (v. i.) A loud utterance; especially, the inarticulate sound produced by one of the lower animals, the cry of hounds; the cry of wolves. \ (v. i.) Outcry; clamor; tumult; popular demand. \ (v. i.) Any expression of grief, distress, etc., accompanied with tears or sobs; a loud sound, uttered in lamentation. \ (v. i.) Loud expression of triumph or wonder or of popular acclamation or favor. \ (v. i.) Importunate supplication. \ (v. i.) Public advertisement by outcry; proclamation, as by hawkers of their wares. \ (v. i.) Common report; fame. \ (v. i.) A word or phrase caught up by a party or faction and repeated for effect, the party cry of the Tories. \ (v. i.) A pack of hounds. \ (v. i.) A pack or company of persons; -- in contempt. \ (v. i.) The crackling noise made by block tin when it is bent back and forth.
ins cup (n.) A small vessel, used commonly to drink from; as, a tin cup, a silver cup, a wine cup; especially, in modern times, the pottery or porcelain vessel, commonly with a handle, used with a saucer in drinking tea, coffee, and the like. \ (n.) The contents of such a vessel; a cupful. \ (n.) Repeated potations; social or excessive indulgence in intoxicating drinks; revelry. \ (n.) That which is to be received or indured; that which is allotted to one; a portion. \ (n.) Anything shaped like a cup, the cup of an acorn, or of a flower. \ (n.) A cupping glass or other vessel or instrument used to produce the vacuum in cupping. \ (v. t.) To supply with cups of wine. \ (v. t.) To apply a cupping apparatus to; to subject to the operation of cupping. See Cupping. \ (v. t.) To make concave or in the form of a cup, to cup the end of a screw. \ A cock or cup containing grease, to serve as a lubricator.
ins cut v. to divide or injure with a sharp tool; to make less; to reduce \ (imp. & p. p.) of Cut \ (v. t.) To separate the parts of with, or as with, a sharp instrument; to make an incision in; to gash; to sever; to divide. \ (v. t.) To sever and cause to fall for the purpose of gathering; to hew; to mow or reap. \ (v. t.) To sever and remove by cutting; to cut off; to dock; as, to cut the hair; to cut the nails. \ (v. t.) To castrate or geld, to cut a horse. \ (v. t.) To form or shape by cutting; to make by incision, hewing, etc.; to carve; to hew out. \ (v. t.) To wound or hurt deeply the sensibilities of; to pierce; to lacerate, sarcasm cuts to the quick. \ (v. t.) To intersect; to cross, one line cuts another at right angles. \ (v. t.) To refuse to recognize; to ignore, to cut a person in the street; to cut one's acquaintance. \ (v. t.) To absent one's self from, to cut an appointment, a recitation. etc. \ (v. i.) To do the work of an edged tool; to serve in dividing or gashing, a knife cuts well. \ (v. i.) To admit of incision or severance; to yield to a cutting instrument. \ (v. i.) To perform the operation of dividing, severing, incising, intersecting; to use a cutting instrument. \ (v. i.) To make a stroke with a whip. \ (v. i.) To interfere, as a horse. \ (v. i.) To move or make off quickly. \ (v. i.) To divide a pack of cards into two portion to decide the deal or trump, or to change the order of the cards to be dealt. \ (n.) An opening made with an edged instrument; a cleft; a gash; a slash; a wound made by cutting, a sword cut. \ (n.) A stroke or blow or cutting motion with an edged instrument; a stroke or blow with a whip. \ (n.) That which wounds the feelings, as a harsh remark or criticism, or a sarcasm; personal discourtesy, as neglecting to recognize an acquaintance when meeting him; a slight. \ (n.) A notch, passage, or channel made by cutting or digging; a furrow; a groove, a cut for a railroad. \ (n.) The surface left by a cut, a smooth or clear cut. \ (n.) A portion severed or cut off; a division, a cut of beef; a cut of timber. \ (n.) An engraved block or plate; the impression from such an engraving, a book illustrated with fine cuts. \ (n.) The act of dividing a pack cards. \ (n.) The right to divide, whose cut is it? \ (n.) Manner in which a thing is cut or formed; shape; style; fashion, the cut of a garment. \ (n.) A common work horse; a gelding. \ (n.) The failure of a college officer or student to be present at any appointed exercise. \ (n.) A skein of yarn. \ (a.) Gashed or divided, as by a cutting instrument. \ (a.) Formed or shaped as by cutting; carved. \ (a.) Overcome by liquor; tipsy. \ (v. t.) To deflect (a bowled ball) to the off, with a chopping movement of the bat. \ (v. t.) To drive (an object ball) to either side by hitting it fine on the other side with the cue ball or another object ball. \ (v. t.) To strike (a ball) with the racket inclined or struck across the ball so as to put a certain spin on the ball.
ins dad (n.) Father; -- a word sometimes used by children.
ins daddy (n.) Diminutive of Dad.
ins dance v. to move the body and feet to music; n. a series of steps, usually to music \ (v. i.) To move with measured steps, or to a musical accompaniment; to go through, either alone or in company with others, with a regulated succession of movements, (commonly) to the sound of music; to trip or leap rhythmically. \ (v. i.) To move nimbly or merrily; to express pleasure by motion; to caper; to frisk; to skip about. \ (v. t.) To cause to dance, or move nimbly or merrily about, or up and down; to dandle. \ (v. i.) The leaping, tripping, or measured stepping of one who dances; an amusement, in which the movements of the persons are regulated by art, in figures and in accord with music. \ (v. i.) A tune by which dancing is regulated, as the minuet, the waltz, the cotillon, etc.
ins dangerous (a.) Attended or beset with danger; full of risk; perilous; hazardous; unsafe. \ (a.) Causing danger; ready to do harm or injury. \ (a.) In a condition of danger, as from illness; threatened with death. \ (a.) Hard to suit; difficult to please. \ (a.) Reserved; not affable.
ins dark ad. having little or no light ("The room was dark.") \ (a.) Destitute, or partially destitute, of light; not receiving, reflecting, or radiating light; wholly or partially black, or of some deep shade of color; not light-colored; as, a dark room; a dark day; dark cloth; dark paint; a dark complexion. \ (a.) Not clear to the understanding; not easily seen through; obscure; mysterious; hidden. \ (a.) Destitute of knowledge and culture; in moral or intellectual darkness; unrefined; ignorant. \ (a.) Evincing black or foul traits of character; vile; wicked; atrocious, a dark villain; a dark deed. \ (a.) Foreboding evil; gloomy; jealous; suspicious. \ (a.) Deprived of sight; blind. \ (n.) Absence of light; darkness; obscurity; a place where there is little or no light. \ (n.) The condition of ignorance; gloom; secrecy. \ (n.) A dark shade or dark passage in a painting, engraving, or the like, the light and darks are well contrasted. \ (v. t.) To darken to obscure.
ins date n. an expression of time; a day, month and year \ (n.) The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself. \ (n.) That addition to a writing, inscription, coin, etc., which specifies the time (as day, month, and year) when the writing or inscription was given, or executed, or made; as, the date of a letter, of a will, of a deed, of a coin. etc. \ (n.) The point of time at which a transaction or event takes place, or is appointed to take place; a given point of time; epoch, the date of a battle. \ (n.) Assigned end; conclusion. \ (n.) Given or assigned length of life; dyration. \ (v. t.) To note the time of writing or executing; to express in an instrument the time of its execution, to date a letter, a bond, a deed, or a charter. \ (v. t.) To note or fix the time of, as of an event; to give the date of, to date the building of the pyramids. \ (v. i.) To have beginning; to begin; to be dated or reckoned; -- with from.
ins daughter n. a person's female child \ (n.) The female offspring of the human species; a female child of any age; -- applied also to the lower animals. \ (n.) A female descendant; a woman. \ (n.) A son's wife; a daughter-in-law. \ (n.) A term of address indicating parental interest.
ins day n. twenty-four hours; the hours of sunlight \ (n.) The time of light, or interval between one night and the next; the time between sunrise and sunset, or from dawn to darkness; hence, the light; sunshine. \ (n.) The period of the earth's revolution on its axis. -- ordinarily divided into twenty-four hours. It is measured by the interval between two successive transits of a celestial body over the same meridian, and takes a specific name from that of the body. Thus, if this is the sun, the day (the interval between two successive transits of the sun's center over the same meridian) is called a solar day; if it is a star, a sidereal day; if it is the moon, a lunar day. See Civil day, Sidereal day, below. \ (n.) Those hours, or the daily recurring period, allotted by usage or law for work. \ (n.) A specified time or period; time, considered with reference to the existence or prominence of a person or thing; age; time. \ (n.) (Preceded by the) Some day in particular, as some day of contest, some anniversary, etc.
ins dead ad. not living \ (a.) Deprived of life; -- opposed to alive and living; reduced to that state of a being in which the organs of motion and life have irrevocably ceased to perform their functions; as, a dead tree; a dead man. \ (a.) Destitute of life; inanimate, dead matter. \ (a.) Resembling death in appearance or quality; without show of life; deathlike, a dead sleep. \ (a.) Still as death; motionless; inactive; useless, dead calm; a dead load or weight. \ (a.) So constructed as not to transmit sound; soundless, a dead floor. \ (a.) Unproductive; bringing no gain; unprofitable, dead capital; dead stock in trade. \ (a.) Lacking spirit; dull; lusterless; cheerless, dead eye; dead fire; dead color, etc. \ (a.) Monotonous or unvaried, a dead level or pain; a dead wall. \ (a.) Sure as death; unerring; fixed; complete, a dead shot; a dead certainty. \ (a.) Bringing death; deadly. \ (a.) Wanting in religious spirit and vitality, dead faith; dead works. \ (a.) Flat; without gloss; -- said of painting which has been applied purposely to have this effect. \ (a.) Not brilliant; not rich; thus, brown is a dead color, as compared with crimson. \ (a.) Cut off from the rights of a citizen; deprived of the power of enjoying the rights of property, one banished or becoming a monk is civilly dead. \ (a.) Not imparting motion or power, the dead spindle of a lathe, etc. See Spindle. \ (adv.) To a degree resembling death; to the last degree; completely; wholly. \ (n.) The most quiet or deathlike time; the period of profoundest repose, inertness, or gloom, the dead of winter. \ (n.) One who is dead; -- commonly used collectively. \ (v. t.) To make dead; to deaden; to deprive of life, force, or vigor. \ (v. i.) To die; to lose life or force. \ (a.) Carrying no current, or producing no useful effect; -- said of a conductor in a dynamo or motor, also of a telegraph wire which has no instrument attached and, therefore, is not in use. \ (a.) Out of play; regarded as out of the game; -- said of a ball, a piece, or a player under certain conditions in cricket, baseball, checkers, and some other games.
ins dear (superl.) Bearing a high price; high-priced; costly; expensive. \ (superl.) Marked by scarcity or dearth, and exorbitance of price; as, a dear year. \ (superl.) Highly valued; greatly beloved; cherished; precious. \ (superl.) Hence, close to the heart; heartfelt; present in mind; engaging the attention. \ (superl.) Of agreeable things and interests. \ (superl.) Of disagreeable things and antipathies. \ (n.) A dear one; lover; sweetheart. \ (adv.) Dearly; at a high price. \ (v. t.) To endear.
ins death (v. i.) The cessation of all vital phenomena without capability of resuscitation, either in animals or plants. \ (v. i.) Total privation or loss; extinction; cessation; as, the death of memory. \ (v. i.) Manner of dying; act or state of passing from life. \ (v. i.) Cause of loss of life. \ (v. i.) Personified: The destroyer of life, -- conventionally represented as a skeleton with a scythe. \ (v. i.) Danger of death. \ (v. i.) Murder; murderous character. \ (v. i.) Loss of spiritual life. \ (v. i.) Anything so dreadful as to be like death.
ins decide v. to choose; to settle; to judge \ (v. t.) To cut off; to separate. \ (v. t.) To bring to a termination, as a question, controversy, struggle, by giving the victory to one side or party; to render judgment concerning; to determine; to settle. \ (v. i.) To determine; to form a definite opinion; to come to a conclusion; to give decision; as, the court decided in favor of the defendant.
ins deep ad. going far down; a long way from top to bottom \ (superl.) Extending far below the surface; of great perpendicular dimension (measured from the surface downward, and distinguished from high, which is measured upward); far to the bottom; having a certain depth; as, a deep sea. \ (superl.) Extending far back from the front or outer part; of great horizontal dimension (measured backward from the front or nearer part, mouth, etc.), a deep cave or recess or wound; a gallery ten seats deep; a company of soldiers six files deep. \ (superl.) Low in situation; lying far below the general surface, a deep valley. \ (superl.) Hard to penetrate or comprehend; profound; -- opposed to shallow or superficial; intricate; mysterious; not obvious; obscure, a deep subject or plot. \ (superl.) Of penetrating or far-reaching intellect; not superficial; thoroughly skilled; sagacious; cunning. \ (superl.) Profound; thorough; complete; unmixed; intense; heavy; heartfelt, deep distress; deep melancholy; deep horror. \ (superl.) Strongly colored; dark; not light or thin, deep blue or crimson. \ (superl.) Of low tone; full-toned; not high or sharp; grave; heavy. \ (superl.) Muddy; boggy; sandy; -- said of roads. \ (adv.) To a great depth; with depth; far down; profoundly; deeply. \ (n.) That which is deep, especially deep water, as the sea or ocean; an abyss; a great depth. \ (n.) That which is profound, not easily fathomed, or incomprehensible; a moral or spiritual depth or abyss.
ins delicious (a.) Affording exquisite pleasure; delightful; most sweet or grateful to the senses, especially to the taste; charming. \ (a.) Addicted to pleasure; seeking enjoyment; luxurious; effeminate.
ins department (v. i.) Act of departing; departure. \ (v. i.) A part, portion, or subdivision. \ (v. i.) A distinct course of life, action, study, or the like; appointed sphere or walk; province. \ (v. i.) Subdivision of business or official duty; especially, one of the principal divisions of executive government; as, the treasury department; the war department; also, in a university, one of the divisions of instruction, the medical department; the department of physics. \ (v. i.) A territorial division; a district; esp., in France, one of the districts composed of several arrondissements into which the country is divided for governmental purposes, the Department of the Loire. \ (v. i.) A military subdivision of a country, the Department of the Potomac.
ins desk (n.) A table, frame, or case, usually with sloping top, but often with flat top, for the use writers and readers. It often has a drawer or repository underneath. \ (n.) A reading table or lectern to support the book from which the liturgical service is read, differing from the pulpit from which the sermon is preached; also (esp. in the United States), a pulpit. Hence, used symbolically for "the clerical profession." \ (v. t.) To shut up, as in a desk; to treasure.
ins diary (n.) A register of daily events or transactions; a daily record; a journal; a blank book dated for the record of daily memoranda; as, a diary of the weather; a physician's diary. \ (a.) lasting for one day, a diary fever.
ins dictionary (n.) A book containing the words of a language, arranged alphabetically, with explanations of their meanings; a lexicon; a vocabulary; a wordbook. \ (n.) Hence, a book containing the words belonging to any system or province of knowledge; as, a dictionary of medicine or of botany; a biographical dictionary.
ins did imp. of Do.
ins die v. to become dead; to stop living; to end \ (pl. ) of Dice \ (v. i.) To pass from an animate to a lifeless state; to cease to live; to suffer a total and irreparable loss of action of the vital functions; to become dead; to expire; to perish; -- said of animals and vegetables; often with of, by, with, from, and rarely for, before the cause or occasion of death; as, to die of disease or hardships; to die by fire or the sword; to die with horror at the thought. \ (v. i.) To suffer death; to lose life. \ (v. i.) To perish in any manner; to cease; to become lost or extinct; to be extinguished. \ (v. i.) To sink; to faint; to pine; to languish, with weakness, discouragement, love, etc. \ (v. i.) To become indifferent; to cease to be subject, to die to pleasure or to sin. \ (v. i.) To recede and grow fainter; to become imperceptible; to vanish; -- often with out or away. \ (v. i.) To disappear gradually in another surface, as where moldings are lost in a sloped or curved face. \ (v. i.) To become vapid, flat, or spiritless, as liquor. \ (n.) A small cube, marked on its faces with spots from one to six, and used in playing games by being shaken in a box and thrown from it. See Dice. \ (n.) Any small cubical or square body. \ (n.) That which is, or might be, determined, by a throw of the die; hazard; chance. \ (n.) That part of a pedestal included between base and cornice; the dado. \ (n.) A metal or plate (often one of a pair) so cut or shaped as to give a certain desired form to, or impress any desired device on, an object or surface, by pressure or by a blow; used in forging metals, coining, striking up sheet metal, etc. \ (n.) A perforated block, commonly of hardened steel used in connection with a punch, for punching holes, as through plates, or blanks from plates, or for forming cups or capsules, as from sheet metal, by drawing. \ (n.) A hollow internally threaded screw-cutting tool, made in one piece or composed of several parts, for forming screw threads on bolts, etc.; one of the separate parts which make up such a tool.
ins different ad. not the same \ (a.) Distinct; separate; not the same; other. \ (a.) Of various or contrary nature, form, or quality; partially or totally unlike; dissimilar; as, different kinds of food or drink; different states of health; different shapes; different degrees of excellence.
ins difficult ad. not easy; hard to do, make or carry out \ (a.) Hard to do or to make; beset with difficulty; attended with labor, trouble, or pains; not easy; arduous. \ (a.) Hard to manage or to please; not easily wrought upon; austere; stubborn; as, a difficult person. \ (v. t.) To render difficult; to impede; to perplex.
ins dinner n. the main amount of food eaten at a usual time ("The family had its dinner at noon."); a special event that includes food ("The official dinner took place at the White House.") \ (n.) The principal meal of the day, eaten by most people about midday, but by many (especially in cities) at a later hour. \ (n.) An entertainment; a feast.
ins dirty (superl.) Defiled with dirt; foul; nasty; filthy; not clean or pure; serving to defile; as, dirty hands; dirty water; a dirty white. \ (superl.) Sullied; clouded; -- applied to color. \ (superl.) Sordid; base; groveling, a dirty fellow. \ (superl.) Sleety; gusty; stormy, dirty weather. \ (v. t.) To foul; to make filthy; to soil, to dirty the clothes or hands. \ (v. t.) To tarnish; to sully; to scandalize; -- said of reputation, character, etc.
ins discover v. to find or learn something \ (v. t.) To uncover. \ (v. t.) To disclose; to lay open to view; to make visible; to reveal; to make known; to show (what has been secret, unseen, or unknown). \ (v. t.) To obtain for the first time sight or knowledge of, as of a thing existing already, but not perceived or known; to find; to ascertain; to espy; to detect. \ (v. t.) To manifest without design; to show. \ (v. t.) To explore; to examine. \ (v. i.) To discover or show one's self.
ins dish (n.) A vessel, as a platter, a plate, a bowl, used for serving up food at the table. \ (n.) The food served in a dish; hence, any particular kind of food; as, a cold dish; a warm dish; a delicious dish. "A dish fit for the gods." \ (n.) The state of being concave, or like a dish, or the degree of such concavity, the dish of a wheel. \ (n.) A hollow place, as in a field. \ (n.) A trough about 28 inches long, 4 deep, and 6 wide, in which ore is measured. \ (n.) That portion of the produce of a mine which is paid to the land owner or proprietor. \ (v. t.) To put in a dish, ready for the table. \ (v. t.) To make concave, or depress in the middle, like a dish, to dish a wheel by inclining the spokes. \ (v. t.) To frustrate; to beat; to ruin.
ins do v. to act; to make an effort \ (n.) A syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonic scale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio. It is the first of the seven syllables used by the Italians as manes of musical tones, and replaced, for the sake of euphony, the syllable Ut, applied to the note C. In England and America the same syllables are used by mane as a scale pattern, while the tones in respect to absolute pitch are named from the first seven letters of the alphabet. \ (v. i.) To act or behave in any manner; to conduct one's self. \ (v. i.) To fare; to be, as regards health; as, they asked him how he did; how do you do to-day? \ (v. i.) To succeed; to avail; to answer the purpose; to serve, if no better plan can be found, he will make this do. \ (n.) Deed; act; fear. \ (n.) Ado; bustle; stir; to do. \ (n.) A cheat; a swindle. \ (v. t.) To perform work upon, about, for, or at, by way of caring for, looking after, preparing, cleaning, keeping in order, or the like. \ (v. t.) To deal with for good and all; to finish up; to undo; to ruin; to do for. / auxiliary) To place; to put. / auxiliary) To cause; to make; -- with an infinitive. / auxiliary) To bring about; to produce, as an effect or result; to effect; to achieve. / auxiliary) To perform, as an action; to execute; to transact to carry out in action; as, to do a good or a bad act; do our duty; to do what I can. / auxiliary) To bring to an end by action; to perform completely; to finish; to accomplish; -- a sense conveyed by the construction, which is that of the past participle done. / auxiliary) To make ready for an object, purpose, or use, as food by cooking; to cook completely or sufficiently; as, the meat is done on one side only. / auxiliary) To put or bring into a form, state, or condition, especially in the phrases, to do death, to put to death; to slay; to do away (often do away with), to put away; to remove; to do on, to put on; to don; to do off, to take off, as dress; to doff; to do into, to put into the form of; to translate or transform into, as a text. / auxiliary) To cheat; to gull; to overreach. / auxiliary) To see or inspect; to explore; as, to do all the points of interest. / auxiliary) To cash or to advance money for, as a bill or note.
ins doctor n. a person trained in medicine to treat sick people \ (n.) A teacher; one skilled in a profession, or branch of knowledge learned man. \ (n.) An academical title, originally meaning a men so well versed in his department as to be qualified to teach it. Hence: One who has taken the highest degree conferred by a university or college, or has received a diploma of the highest degree; as, a doctor of divinity, of law, of medicine, of music, or of philosophy. Such diplomas may confer an honorary title only. \ (n.) One duly licensed to practice medicine; a member of the medical profession; a physician. \ (n.) Any mechanical contrivance intended to remedy a difficulty or serve some purpose in an exigency, the doctor of a calico-printing machine, which is a knife to remove superfluous coloring matter; the doctor, or auxiliary engine, called also donkey engine. \ (n.) The friar skate. \ (v. t.) To treat as a physician does; to apply remedies to; to repair, to doctor a sick man or a broken cart. \ (v. t.) To confer a doctorate upon; to make a doctor. \ (v. t.) To tamper with and arrange for one's own purposes; to falsify; to adulterate, to doctor election returns; to doctor whisky. \ (v. i.) To practice physic.
ins does The 3d pers. sing. pres. of Do.
ins dog n. a small animal that often lives with humans \ (n.) A quadruped of the genus Canis, esp. the domestic dog (C. familiaris). \ (n.) A mean, worthless fellow; a wretch. \ (n.) A fellow; -- used humorously or contemptuously; as, a sly dog; a lazy dog. \ (n.) One of the two constellations, Canis Major and Canis Minor, or the Greater Dog and the Lesser Dog. Canis Major contains the Dog Star (Sirius). \ (n.) An iron for holding wood in a fireplace; a firedog; an andiron. \ (n.) A grappling iron, with a claw or claws, for fastening into wood or other heavy articles, for the purpose of raising or moving them. \ (n.) An iron with fangs fastening a log in a saw pit, or on the carriage of a sawmill. \ (n.) A piece in machinery acting as a catch or clutch; especially, the carrier of a lathe, also, an adjustable stop to change motion, as in a machine tool. \ (v. t.) To hunt or track like a hound; to follow insidiously or indefatigably; to chase with a dog or dogs; to worry, as if by dogs; to hound with importunity.
ins doll (n.) A child's puppet; a toy baby for a little girl.
ins dollar n. United States money, one hundred cents \ (n.) A silver coin of the United States containing 371.25 grains of silver and 41.25 grains of alloy, that is, having a total weight of 412.5 grains. \ (n.) A gold coin of the United States containing 23.22 grains of gold and 2.58 grains of alloy, having a total weight of 25.8 grains, nine-tenths fine. It is no longer coined. \ (n.) A coin of the same general weight and value, though differing slightly in different countries, current in Mexico, Canada, parts of South America, also in Spain, and several other European countries. \ (n.) The value of a dollar; the unit commonly employed in the United States in reckoning money values.
ins door n. an opening for entering or leaving a building or room \ (n.) An opening in the wall of a house or of an apartment, by which to go in and out; an entrance way. \ (n.) The frame or barrier of boards, or other material, usually turning on hinges, by which an entrance way into a house or apartment is closed and opened. \ (n.) Passage; means of approach or access. \ (n.) An entrance way, but taken in the sense of the house or apartment to which it leads.
ins down ad. from higher to lower; in a low place \ (n.) Fine, soft, hairy outgrowth from the skin or surface of animals or plants, not matted and fleecy like wool \ (n.) The soft under feathers of birds. They have short stems with soft rachis and bards and long threadlike barbules, without hooklets. \ (n.) The pubescence of plants; the hairy crown or envelope of the seeds of certain plants, as of the thistle. \ (n.) The soft hair of the face when beginning to appear. \ (n.) That which is made of down, as a bed or pillow; that which affords ease and repose, like a bed of down \ (v. t.) To cover, ornament, line, or stuff with down. \ (prep.) A bank or rounded hillock of sand thrown up by the wind along or near the shore; a flattish-topped hill; -- usually in the plural. \ (prep.) A tract of poor, sandy, undulating or hilly land near the sea, covered with fine turf which serves chiefly for the grazing of sheep; -- usually in the plural. \ (prep.) A road for shipping in the English Channel or Straits of Dover, near Deal, employed as a naval rendezvous in time of war. \ (prep.) A state of depression; low state; abasement. \ (adv.) In the direction of gravity or toward the center of the earth; toward or in a lower place or position; below; -- the opposite of up. \ (adv.) From a higher to a lower position, literally or figuratively; in a descending direction; from the top of an ascent; from an upright position; to the ground or floor; to or into a lower or an inferior condition; as, into a state of humility, disgrace, misery, and the like; into a state of rest; -- used with verbs indicating motion. \ (adv.) In a low or the lowest position; at the bottom of a decent; below the horizon; of the ground; in a condition of humility, dejection; in a state of quiet. \ (adv.) From a remoter or higher antiquity. \ (adv.) From a greater to a less bulk, or from a thinner to a thicker consistence, to boil down in cookery, or in making decoctions. \ (adv.) In a descending direction along; from a higher to a lower place upon or within; at a lower place in or on, down a hill; down a well. \ (adv.) Hence: Towards the mouth of a river; towards the sea, to sail or swim down a stream; to sail down the sound. \ (v. t.) To cause to go down; to make descend; to put down; to overthrow, as in wrestling; hence, to subdue; to bring down. \ (v. i.) To go down; to descend. \ (a.) Downcast, a down look. \ (a.) Downright; absolute; positive, a down denial. \ (a.) Downward; going down; sloping, a down stroke; a down grade; a down train on a railway.
ins draw (v. t.) To cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow. \ (v. t.) To influence to move or tend toward one's self; to exercise an attracting force upon; to call towards itself; to attract; hence, to entice; to allure; to induce. \ (v. t.) To cause to come out for one's use or benefit; to extract; to educe; to bring forth; as: (a) To bring or take out, or to let out, from some receptacle, as a stick or post from a hole, water from a cask or well, etc. \ (v. t.) To pull from a sheath, as a sword. \ (v. t.) To extract; to force out; to elicit; to derive. \ (v. t.) To obtain from some cause or origin; to infer from evidence or reasons; to deduce from premises; to derive. \ (v. t.) To take or procure from a place of deposit; to call for and receive from a fund, or the like; as, to draw money from a bank. \ (v. t.) To take from a box or wheel, as a lottery ticket; to receive from a lottery by the drawing out of the numbers for prizes or blanks, to obtain by good fortune; to win; to gain, he drew a prize. \ (v. t.) To select by the drawing of lots. \ (v. t.) To remove the contents of \ (v. t.) To drain by emptying; to suck dry. \ (v. t.) To extract the bowels of; to eviscerate, to draw a fowl; to hang, draw, and quarter a criminal. \ (v. t.) To take into the lungs; to inhale; to inspire, also, to utter or produce by an inhalation; to heave. \ (v. t.) To extend in length; to lengthen; to protract; to stretch; to extend, as a mass of metal into wire. \ (v. t.) To run, extend, or produce, as a line on any surface, to form by marking; to make by an instrument of delineation; to produce, as a sketch, figure, or picture. \ (v. t.) To represent by lines drawn; to form a sketch or a picture of; to represent by a picture; to delineate, to represent by words; to depict; to describe. \ (v. t.) To write in due form; to prepare a draught of, to draw a memorial, a deed, or bill of exchange. \ (v. t.) To require (so great a depth, as of water) for floating; -- said of a vessel; to sink so deep in (water), a ship draws ten feet of water. \ (v. t.) To withdraw. \ (v. t.) To trace by scent; to track; -- a hunting term. \ (v. i.) To pull; to exert strength in drawing anything; to have force to move anything by pulling, a horse draws well; the sails of a ship draw well. \ (v. i.) To draw a liquid from some receptacle, as water from a well. \ (v. i.) To exert an attractive force; to act as an inducement or enticement. \ (v. i.) To have efficiency as an epispastic; to act as a sinapism; -- said of a blister, poultice, etc. \ (v. i.) To have draught, as a chimney, flue; to furnish transmission to smoke, gases, etc. \ (v. i.) To unsheathe a weapon, especially a sword. \ (v. i.) To perform the act, or practice the art, of delineation; to sketch; to form figures or pictures. \ (v. i.) To become contracted; to shrink. \ (n.) The act of drawing; draught.
ins dream v. to have a picture or story in the mind during sleep; n. a picture or story in the mind during sleep; a happy idea about the future \ (n.) The thoughts, or series of thoughts, or imaginary transactions, which occupy the mind during sleep; a sleeping vision. \ (n.) A visionary scheme; a wild conceit; an idle fancy; a vagary; a revery; -- in this sense, applied to an imaginary or anticipated state of happiness; as, a dream of bliss; the dream of his youth. \ (n.) To have ideas or images in the mind while in the state of sleep; to experience sleeping visions; -- often with of, to dream of a battle, or of an absent friend. \ (n.) To let the mind run on in idle revery or vagary; to anticipate vaguely as a coming and happy reality; to have a visionary notion or idea; to imagine. \ (v. t.) To have a dream of; to see, or have a vision of, in sleep, or in idle fancy; -- often followed by an objective clause.
ins dress (v. t.) To direct; to put right or straight; to regulate; to order. \ (v. t.) To arrange in exact continuity of line, as soldiers; commonly to adjust to a straight line and at proper distance; to align; as, to dress the ranks. \ (v. t.) To treat methodically with remedies, bandages, or curative appliances, as a sore, an ulcer, a wound, or a wounded or diseased part. \ (v. t.) To adjust; to put in good order; to arrange; specifically: (a) To prepare for use; to fit for any use; to render suitable for an intended purpose; to get ready, to dress a slain animal; to dress meat; to dress leather or cloth; to dress or trim a lamp; to dress a garden; to dress a horse, by currying and rubbing; to dress grain, by cleansing it; in mining and metallurgy, to dress ores, by sorting and separating them. \ (v. t.) To cut to proper dimensions, or give proper shape to, as to a tool by hammering; also, to smooth or finish. \ (v. t.) To put in proper condition by appareling, as the body; to put clothes upon; to apparel; to invest with garments or rich decorations; to clothe; to deck. \ (v. t.) To break and train for use, as a horse or other animal. \ (v. i.) To arrange one's self in due position in a line of soldiers; -- the word of command to form alignment in ranks, Right, dress! \ (v. i.) To clothe or apparel one's self; to put on one's garments; to pay particular regard to dress, to dress quickly. \ (n.) That which is used as the covering or ornament of the body; clothes; garments; habit; apparel. \ (n.) A lady's gown, silk or a velvet dress. \ (n.) Attention to apparel, or skill in adjusting it. \ (n.) The system of furrows on the face of a millstone.
ins drink v. to take liquid into the body through the mouth \ (v. i.) To swallow anything liquid, for quenching thirst or other purpose; to imbibe; to receive or partake of, as if in satisfaction of thirst; as, to drink from a spring. \ (v. i.) To quaff exhilarating or intoxicating liquors, in merriment or feasting; to carouse; to revel; hence, to lake alcoholic liquors to excess; to be intemperate in the /se of intoxicating or spirituous liquors; to tipple. \ (v. t.) To swallow (a liquid); to receive, as a fluid, into the stomach, to drink milk or water. \ (v. t.) To take in (a liquid), in any manner; to suck up; to absorb; to imbibe. \ (v. t.) To take in; to receive within one, through the senses; to inhale; to hear; to see. \ (v. t.) To smoke, as tobacco. \ (n.) Liquid to be swallowed; any fluid to be taken into the stomach for quenching thirst or for other purposes, as water, coffee, or decoctions. \ (n.) Specifically, intoxicating liquor, when drink is on, wit is out.
ins drive v. to control a moving vehicle \ (v. t.) To impel or urge onward by force in a direction away from one, or along before one; to push forward; to compel to move on; to communicate motion to; as, to drive cattle; to drive a nail; smoke drives persons from a room. \ (v. t.) To urge on and direct the motions of, as the beasts which draw a vehicle, or the vehicle borne by them; hence, also, to take in a carriage; to convey in a vehicle drawn by beasts, to drive a pair of horses or a stage; to drive a person to his own door. \ (v. t.) To urge, impel, or hurry forward; to force; to constrain; to urge, press, or bring to a point or state, to drive a person by necessity, by persuasion, by force of circumstances, by argument, and the like. \ (v. t.) To carry or; to keep in motion; to conduct; to prosecute. \ (v. t.) To clear, by forcing away what is contained. \ (v. t.) To dig Horizontally; to cut a horizontal gallery or tunnel. \ (v. t.) To pass away; -- said of time. \ (v. i.) To rush and press with violence; to move furiously. \ (v. i.) To be forced along; to be impelled; to be moved by any physical force or agent; to be driven. \ (v. i.) To go by carriage; to pass in a carriage; to proceed by directing or urging on a vehicle or the animals that draw it, the coachman drove to my door. \ (v. i.) To press forward; to aim, or tend, to a point; to make an effort; to strive; -- usually with at. \ (v. i.) To distrain for rent. \ (p. p.) Driven. \ (n.) The act of driving; a trip or an excursion in a carriage, as for exercise or pleasure; -- distinguished from a ride taken on horseback. \ (n.) A place suitable or agreeable for driving; a road prepared for driving. \ (n.) Violent or rapid motion; a rushing onward or away; esp., a forced or hurried dispatch of business. \ (n.) In type founding and forging, an impression or matrix, formed by a punch drift. \ (n.) A collection of objects that are driven; a mass of logs to be floated down a river. \ (v. i.) To make a drive, or stroke from the tee. \ (v. t.) Specif., in various games, as tennis, baseball, etc., to propel (the ball) swiftly by a direct stroke or forcible throw. \ (n.) In various games, cricket, the act of player who drives the ball; the stroke or blow; the flight of the ball, so driven. \ (n.) A stroke from the tee, generally a full shot made with a driver, the distance covered by such a stroke. \ (n.) An implement used for driving; \ (n.) A mallet. \ (n.) A tamping iron. \ (n.) A cooper's hammer for driving on barrel hoops. \ (n.) A wooden-headed golf club with a long shaft, for playing the longest strokes.
ins driver (n.) One who, or that which, drives; the person or thing that urges or compels anything else to move onward. \ (n.) The person who drives beasts or a carriage; a coachman; a charioteer, etc.; hence, also, one who controls the movements of a locomotive. \ (n.) An overseer of a gang of slaves or gang of convicts at their work. \ (n.) A part that transmits motion to another part by contact with it, or through an intermediate relatively movable part, as a gear which drives another, or a lever which moves another through a link, etc. Specifically: \ (n.) The driving wheel of a locomotive. \ (n.) An attachment to a lathe, spindle, or face plate to turn a carrier. \ (n.) A crossbar on a grinding mill spindle to drive the upper stone. \ (n.) The after sail in a ship or bark, being a fore-and-aft sail attached to a gaff; a spanker.
ins drop v. to fall or let fall; to go lower \ (n.) The quantity of fluid which falls in one small spherical mass; a liquid globule; a minim; hence, also, the smallest easily measured portion of a fluid; a small quantity; as, a drop of water. \ (n.) That which resembles, or that which hangs like, a liquid drop; as a hanging diamond ornament, an earring, a glass pendant on a chandelier, a sugarplum (sometimes medicated), or a kind of shot or slug. \ (n.) Same as Gutta. \ (n.) Any small pendent ornament. \ (n.) Whatever is arranged to drop, hang, or fall from an elevated position, a contrivance for lowering something \ (n.) A door or platform opening downward; a trap door; that part of the gallows on which a culprit stands when he is to be hanged, the gallows itself. \ (n.) A machine for lowering heavy weights, as packages, coal wagons, etc., to a ship's deck. \ (n.) A contrivance for temporarily lowering a gas jet. \ (n.) A curtain which drops or falls in front of the stage of a theater, etc. \ (n.) A drop press or drop hammer. \ (n.) The distance of the axis of a shaft below the base of a hanger. \ (n.) Any medicine the dose of which is measured by drops, lavender drops. \ (n.) The depth of a square sail; -- generally applied to the courses only. \ (n.) Act of dropping; sudden fall or descent. \ (n.) To pour or let fall in drops; to pour in small globules; to distill. \ (n.) To cause to fall in one portion, or by one motion, like a drop; to let fall, to drop a line in fishing; to drop a courtesy. \ (n.) To let go; to dismiss; to set aside; to have done with; to discontinue; to forsake; to give up; to omit. \ (n.) To bestow or communicate by a suggestion; to let fall in an indirect, cautious, or gentle manner, to drop hint, a word of counsel, etc. \ (n.) To lower, as a curtain, or the muzzle of a gun, etc. \ (n.) To send, as a letter, please drop me a line, a letter, word. \ (n.) To give birth to, to drop a lamb. \ (n.) To cover with drops; to variegate; to bedrop. \ (v. i.) To fall in drops. \ (v. i.) To fall, in general, literally or figuratively, ripe fruit drops from a tree; wise words drop from the lips. \ (v. i.) To let drops fall; to discharge itself in drops. \ (v. i.) To fall dead, or to fall in death. \ (v. i.) To come to an end; to cease; to pass out of mind, the affair dropped. \ (v. i.) To come unexpectedly; -- with in or into, my old friend dropped in a moment. \ (v. i.) To fall or be depressed; to lower, the point of the spear dropped a little. \ (v. i.) To fall short of a mark. \ (v. i.) To be deep in extent; to descend perpendicularly, her main topsail drops seventeen yards.
ins dry ad. not wet; without rain \ (superl.) Free from moisture; having little humidity or none; arid; not wet or moist; deficient in the natural or normal supply of moisture, as rain or fluid of any kind; -- said especially: (a) Of the weather: Free from rain or mist. \ (superl.) Of vegetable matter: Free from juices or sap; not succulent; not green; as, dry wood or hay. \ (superl.) Of animals: Not giving milk, the cow is dry. \ (superl.) Of persons: Thirsty; needing drink. \ (superl.) Of the eyes: Not shedding tears. \ (superl.) Of certain morbid conditions, in which there is entire or comparative absence of moisture, dry gangrene; dry catarrh. \ (superl.) Destitute of that which interests or amuses; barren; unembellished; jejune; plain. \ (superl.) Characterized by a quality somewhat severe, grave, or hard; hence, sharp; keen; shrewd; quaint, a dry tone or manner; dry wit. \ (superl.) Exhibiting a sharp, frigid preciseness of execution, or the want of a delicate contour in form, and of easy transition in coloring. \ (a.) To make dry; to free from water, or from moisture of any kind, and by any means; to exsiccate, to dry the eyes; to dry one's tears; the wind dries the earth; to dry a wet cloth; to dry hay. \ (v. i.) To grow dry; to become free from wetness, moisture, or juice, the road dries rapidly. \ (v. i.) To evaporate wholly; to be exhaled; -- said of moisture, or a liquid; -- sometimes with up, the stream dries, or dries up. \ (v. i.) To shrivel or wither; to lose vitality.
ins during ad. through the whole time; while (something is happening) \ (prep.) In the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as, during life; during the space of a year.
ins each ad. every one by itself \ (a. \ (a. / a. pron.) Every one of the two or more individuals composing a number of objects, considered separately from the rest. It is used either with or without a following noun; as, each of you or each one of you. / a. pron.) Every; -- sometimes used interchangeably with every.
ins ear (n.) The organ of hearing; the external ear. \ (n.) The sense of hearing; the perception of sounds; the power of discriminating between different tones; as, a nice ear for music; -- in the singular only. \ (n.) That which resembles in shape or position the ear of an animal; any prominence or projection on an object, -- usually one for support or attachment; a lug; a handle, the ears of a tub, a skillet, or dish. The ears of a boat are outside kneepieces near the bow. See Illust. of Bell. \ (n.) Same as Acroterium. \ (n.) Same as Crossette. \ (n.) Privilege of being kindly heard; favor; attention. \ (v. t.) To take in with the ears; to hear. \ (n.) The spike or head of any cereal (as, wheat, rye, barley, Indian corn, etc.), containing the kernels. \ (v. i.) To put forth ears in growing; to form ears, as grain, this corn ears well. \ (v. t.) To plow or till; to cultivate.
ins early ad. at or near the beginning, especially the beginning of the day; opposite late \ (adv.) Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early. \ (adv.) In advance of the usual or appointed time; prior in time; among or near the first; -- opposed to late, the early bird; an early spring; early fruit. \ (adv.) Coming in the first part of a period of time, or among the first of successive acts, events, etc.
ins earth n. the planet we all live on; the ground or soil \ (n.) The globe or planet which we inhabit; the world, in distinction from the sun, moon, or stars. Also, this world as the dwelling place of mortals, in distinction from the dwelling place of spirits. \ (n.) The solid materials which make up the globe, in distinction from the air or water; the dry land. \ (n.) The softer inorganic matter composing part of the surface of the globe, in distinction from the firm rock; soil of all kinds, including gravel, clay, loam, and the like; sometimes, soil favorable to the growth of plants; the visible surface of the globe; the ground; as, loose earth; rich earth. \ (n.) A part of this globe; a region; a country; land. \ (n.) Worldly things, as opposed to spiritual things; the pursuits, interests, and allurements of this life. \ (n.) The people on the globe. \ (n.) Any earthy-looking metallic oxide, as alumina, glucina, zirconia, yttria, and thoria. \ (n.) A similar oxide, having a slight alkaline reaction, as lime, magnesia, strontia, baryta. \ (n.) A hole in the ground, where an animal hides himself, the earth of a fox. \ (v. t.) To hide, or cause to hide, in the earth; to chase into a burrow or den. \ (v. t.) To cover with earth or mold; to inter; to bury; -- sometimes with up. \ (v. i.) To burrow. \ (n.) A plowing. \ (n.) The connection of any part an electric conductor with the ground; specif., the connection of a telegraph line with the ground through a fault or otherwise.
ins east n. the direction from which the sun rises \ (n.) The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to rise at the equinox, or the corresponding point on the earth; that one of the four cardinal points of the compass which is in a direction at right angles to that of north and south, and which is toward the right hand of one who faces the north; the point directly opposite to the west. \ (n.) The eastern parts of the earth; the regions or countries which lie east of Europe; the orient. In this indefinite sense, the word is applied to Asia Minor, Syria, Chaldea, Persia, India, China, etc.; as, the riches of the East; the diamonds and pearls of the East; the kings of the East. \ (n.) Formerly, the part of the United States east of the Alleghany Mountains, esp. the Eastern, or New England, States; now, commonly, the whole region east of the Mississippi River, esp. that which is north of Maryland and the Ohio River; -- usually with the definite article, the commerce of the East is not independent of the agriculture of the West. \ (a.) Toward the rising sun; or toward the point where the sun rises when in the equinoctial, the east gate; the east border; the east side; the east wind is a wind that blows from the east. \ (adv.) Eastward. \ (v. i.) To move toward the east; to veer from the north or south toward the east; to orientate. \ (a.) Designating, or situated in, that part of a church which contains the choir or chancel, the east front of a cathedral.
ins easy ad. not difficult; not hard to do \ (v. t.) At ease; free from pain, trouble, or constraint \ (v. t.) Free from pain, distress, toil, exertion, and the like; quiet; as, the patient is easy. \ (v. t.) Free from care, responsibility, discontent; not anxious; tranquil, an easy mind. \ (v. t.) Free from constraint, harshness, or formality; unconstrained; smooth, easy manners; an easy style. \ (v. t.) Not causing, or attended with, pain or disquiet, or much exertion; affording ease or rest, an easy carriage; a ship having an easy motion; easy movements, as in dancing. \ (v. t.) Not difficult; requiring little labor or effort; slight; inconsiderable, an easy task; an easy victory. \ (v. t.) Causing ease; giving freedom from care or labor; furnishing comfort; commodious, easy circumstances; an easy chair or cushion. \ (v. t.) Not making resistance or showing unwillingness; tractable; yielding; complying; ready. \ (v. t.) Moderate; sparing; frugal. \ (v. t.) Not straitened as to money matters, the market is easy; -- opposed to tight.
ins eat v. to take food into the body through the mouth \ of Eat \ (v. t.) To chew and swallow as food; to devour; -- said especially of food not liquid; as, to eat bread. \ (v. t.) To corrode, as metal, by rust; to consume the flesh, as a cancer; to waste or wear away; to destroy gradually; to cause to disappear. \ (v. i.) To take food; to feed; especially, to take solid, in distinction from liquid, food; to board. \ (v. i.) To taste or relish, it eats like tender beef. \ (v. i.) To make one's way slowly.
ins egg n. the rounded object containing unborn young produced by female birds, fish or reptiles; a single cell in a female person or animal that can develop into a baby \ (n.) The oval or roundish body laid by domestic poultry and other birds, tortoises, etc. It consists of a yolk, usually surrounded by the "white" or albumen, and inclosed in a shell or strong membrane. \ (n.) A simple cell, from the development of which the young of animals are formed; ovum; germ cell. \ (n.) Anything resembling an egg in form. \ (v. t.) To urge on; to instigate; to incite/
ins eight (n.) An island in a river; an ait. \ (a.) Seven and one; as, eight years. \ (n.) The number greater by a unit than seven; eight units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing eight units, as 8 or viii.
ins eighteen (a.) Eight and ten; as, eighteen pounds. \ (n.) The number greater by a unit than seventeen; eighteen units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol denoting eighteen units, as 18 or xviii.
ins eighty (a.) Eight times ten; fourscore. \ (n.) The sum of eight times ten; eighty units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing eighty units, or ten eight times repeated, as 80 or lxxx.
ins either ad. one of two, but not the other \ (a. & pron.) One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one. \ (a. & pron.) Each of two; the one and the other; both; -- formerly, also, each of any number. \ (conj. Either) precedes two, or more, coordinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or.
ins elephant (n.) A mammal of the order Proboscidia, of which two living species, Elephas Indicus and E. Africanus, and several fossil species, are known. They have a proboscis or trunk, and two large ivory tusks proceeding from the extremity of the upper jaw, and curving upwards. The molar teeth are large and have transverse folds. Elephants are the largest land animals now existing. \ (n.) Ivory; the tusk of the elephant.
ins eleven (a.) Ten and one added; as, eleven men. \ (n.) The sum of ten and one; eleven units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing eleven units, as 11 or xi. \ (n.) The eleven men selected to play on one side in a match, as the representatives of a club or a locality, the all-England eleven.
ins else (a. & pron.) Other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming? What else shall I give? Do you expect anything else? \ (adv. & conj.) Besides; except that mentioned; in addition, nowhere else; no one else. \ (adv. & conj.) Otherwise; in the other, or the contrary, case; if the facts were different.
ins end v. to stop; to finish; n. the part which comes last \ (n.) The extreme or last point or part of any material thing considered lengthwise (the extremity of breadth being side); hence, extremity, in general; the concluding part; termination; close; limit; as, the end of a field, line, pole, road; the end of a year, of a discourse; put an end to pain; -- opposed to beginning, when used of anything having a first part. \ (n.) Point beyond which no procession can be made; conclusion; issue; result, whether successful or otherwise; conclusive event; consequence. \ (n.) Termination of being; death; destruction; extermination; also, cause of death or destruction. \ (n.) The object aimed at in any effort considered as the close and effect of exertion; ppurpose; intention; aim, to labor for private or public ends. \ (n.) That which is left; a remnant; a fragment; a scrap, odds and ends. \ (n.) One of the yarns of the worsted warp in a Brussels carpet. \ (v. t.) To bring to an end or conclusion; to close; to terminate, to end a speech. \ (v. t.) To form or be at the end of, the letter k ends the word back. \ (v. t.) To destroy; to put to death. \ (v. i.) To come to the ultimate point; to be finished; to come to a close; to cease, a voyage ends; life ends; winter ends.
ins enjoy v. to be pleased or satisfied by something \ (v. t.) To take pleasure or satisfaction in the possession or experience of; to feel or perceive with pleasure; to be delighted with; as, to enjoy the dainties of a feast; to enjoy conversation. \ (v. t.) To have, possess, and use with satisfaction; to occupy or have the benefit of, as a good or profitable thing, or as something desirable, to enjoy a free constitution and religious liberty. \ (v. t.) To have sexual intercourse with. \ (v. i.) To take satisfaction; to live in happiness.
ins enough ad. as much as necessary; pro. the amount needed \ (a.) Satisfying desire; giving content; adequate to meet the want; sufficient; -- usually, and more elegantly, following the noun to which it belongs. \ (adv.) In a degree or quantity that satisfies; to satisfaction; sufficiently. \ (adv.) Fully; quite; -- used to express slight augmentation of the positive degree, and sometimes equivalent to very; as, he is ready enough to embrace the offer. \ (adv.) In a tolerable degree; -- used to express mere acceptableness or acquiescence, and implying a degree or quantity rather less than is desired, the song was well enough. \ (n.) A sufficiency; a quantity which satisfies desire, is adequate to the want, or is equal to the power or ability, he had enough to do take care of himself. \ (interj.) An exclamation denoting sufficiency, being a shortened form of it is enough.
ins enter v. to come or go into \ (v. t.) To come or go into; to pass into the interior of; to pass within the outer cover or shell of; to penetrate; to pierce; as, to enter a house, a closet, a country, a door, etc.; the river enters the sea. \ (v. t.) To unite in; to join; to be admitted to; to become a member of, to enter an association, a college, an army. \ (v. t.) To engage in; to become occupied with, to enter the legal profession, the book trade, etc. \ (v. t.) To pass within the limits of; to attain; to begin; to commence upon, to enter one's teens, a new era, a new dispensation. \ (v. t.) To cause to go (into), or to be received (into); to put in; to insert; to cause to be admitted, to enter a knife into a piece of wood, a wedge into a log; to enter a boy at college, a horse for a race, etc. \ (v. t.) To inscribe; to enroll; to record, to enter a name, or a date, in a book, or a book in a catalogue; to enter the particulars of a sale in an account, a manifest of a ship or of merchandise at the customhouse. \ (v. t.) To go into or upon, as lands, and take actual possession of them. \ (v. t.) To place in regular form before the court, usually in writing; to put upon record in proper from and order, to enter a writ, appearance, rule, or judgment. \ (v. t.) To make report of (a vessel or her cargo) at the customhouse; to submit a statement of (imported goods), with the original invoices, to the proper officer of the customs for estimating the duties. See Entry, 4. \ (v. t.) To file or inscribe upon the records of the land office the required particulars concerning (a quantity of public land) in order to entitle a person to a right pf preemption. \ (v. t.) To deposit for copyright the title or description of (a book, picture, map, etc.), "entered according to act of Congress." \ (v. t.) To initiate; to introduce favorably. \ (v. i.) To go or come in; -- often with in used pleonastically; also; to take the first steps. \ (v. i.) To get admission; to introduce one's self; to form or constitute a part; to become a partaker or participant; to share; to engage; -- usually with into; sometimes with on or upon, a ball enters into the body; water enters into a ship; he enters into the plan; to enter into a quarrel; a merchant enters into partnership with some one; to enter upon another's land; the boy enters on his tenth year; to enter upon a task; lead enters into the composition of pewter. \ (v. i.) To penetrate mentally; to consider attentively; -- with into.
ins even ad. in a way not thought possible ("They survived, even though the building was destroyed.") \ (n.) Evening. See Eve, n. 1. \ (a.) Level, smooth, or equal in surface; not rough; free from irregularities; hence uniform in rate of motion of action; as, even ground; an even speed; an even course of conduct. \ (a.) Equable; not easily ruffed or disturbed; calm; uniformly self-possessed, an even temper. \ (a.) Parallel; on a level; reaching the same limit. \ (a.) Balanced; adjusted; fair; equitable; impartial; just to both side; owing nothing on either side; -- said of accounts, bargains, or persons indebted, our accounts are even; an even bargain. \ (a.) Without an irregularity, flaw, or blemish; pure. \ (a.) Associate; fellow; of the same condition. \ (a.) Not odd; capable of division by two without a remainder; -- said of numbers, 4 and 10 are even numbers. \ (v. t.) To make even or level; to level; to lay smooth. \ (v. t.) To equal \ (v. t.) To place in an equal state, as to obligation, or in a state in which nothing is due on either side; to balance, as accounts; to make quits. \ (v. t.) To set right; to complete. \ (v. t.) To act up to; to keep pace with. \ (v. i.) To be equal. \ (a.) In an equal or precisely similar manner; equally; precisely; just; likewise; as well. \ (a.) Up to, or down to, an unusual measure or level; so much as; fully; quite. \ (a.) As might not be expected; -- serving to introduce what is unexpected or less expected. \ (a.) At the very time; in the very case.
ins evening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Even \ (n.) The latter part and close of the day, and the beginning of darkness or night; properly, the decline of the day, or of the sum. \ (n.) The latter portion, as of life; the declining period, as of strength or glory.
ins ever ad. at any time \ (adv.) At any time; at any period or point of time. \ (adv.) At all times; through all time; always; forever. \ (adv.) Without cessation; continually.
ins every ad. each one; all \ (a. & a. pron.) All the parts which compose a whole collection or aggregate number, considered in their individuality, all taken separately one by one, out of an indefinite bumber. \ (a. & a. pron.) Every one. Cf.
ins everybody (n.) Every person.
ins everyone (n.) Everybody; -- commonly separated, every one.
ins everything (n.) Whatever pertains to the subject under consideration; all things.
ins everywhere (adv.) In every place; in all places; hence, in every part; throughly; altogether.
ins excuse v. to take away blame; to pardon; to forgive; n. a reason (sometimes false) for an action \ (v. t.) To free from accusation, or the imputation of fault or blame; to clear from guilt; to release from a charge; to justify by extenuating a fault; to exculpate; to absolve; to acquit. \ (v. t.) To pardon, as a fault; to forgive entirely, or to admit to be little censurable, and to overlook; as, we excuse irregular conduct, when extraordinary circumstances appear to justify it. \ (v. t.) To regard with indulgence; to view leniently or to overlook; to pardon. \ (v. t.) To free from an impending obligation or duty; hence, to disengage; to dispense with; to release by favor; also, to remit by favor; not to exact, to excuse a forfeiture. \ (v. t.) To relieve of an imputation by apology or defense; to make apology for as not seriously evil; to ask pardon or indulgence for. \ (v. t.) The act of excusing, apologizing, exculpating, pardoning, releasing, and the like; acquittal; release; absolution; justification; extenuation. \ (v. t.) That which is offered as a reason for being excused; a plea offered in extenuation of a fault or irregular deportment; apology, an excuse for neglect of duty; excuses for delay of payment. \ (v. t.) That which excuses; that which extenuates or justifies a fault.
ins eye (n.) A brood; as, an eye of pheasants. \ (n.) The organ of sight or vision. In man, and the vertebrates generally, it is properly the movable ball or globe in the orbit, but the term often includes the adjacent parts. In most invertebrates the years are immovable ocelli, or compound eyes made up of numerous ocelli. See Ocellus. \ (n.) The faculty of seeing; power or range of vision; hence, judgment or taste in the use of the eye, and in judging of objects, to have the eye of sailor; an eye for the beautiful or picturesque. \ (n.) The action of the organ of sight; sight, look; view; ocular knowledge; judgment; opinion. \ (n.) The space commanded by the organ of sight; scope of vision, face; front; the presence of an object which is directly opposed or confronted; immediate presence. \ (n.) Observation; oversight; watch; inspection; notice; attention; regard. \ (n.) That which resembles the organ of sight, in form, position, or appearance \ (n.) The spots on a feather, as of peacock. \ (n.) The scar to which the adductor muscle is attached in oysters and other bivalve shells; also, the adductor muscle itself, esp. when used as food, as in the scallop. \ (n.) The bud or sprout of a plant or tuber; as the eye of a potato. \ (n.) The center of a target; the bull's-eye. \ (n.) A small loop to receive a hook; as hooks and eyes on a dress. \ (n.) The hole through the head of a needle. \ (n.) A loop forming part of anything, or a hole through anything, to receive a rope, hook, pin, shaft, etc.; as an eye at the end of a tie bar in a bridge truss; as an eye through a crank; an eye at the end of rope. \ (n.) The hole through the upper millstone. \ (n.) That which resembles the eye in relative importance or beauty. \ (n.) Tinge; shade of color. \ (v. t.) To fix the eye on; to look on; to view; to observe; particularly, to observe or watch narrowly, or with fixed attention; to hold in view. \ (v. i.) To appear; to look.
ins face n. the front of the head: eyes, nose, mouth; v. to look toward; to turn toward; to have before you, such as a problem or danger
ins fact n. something known or proved to be true \ (n.) A doing, making, or preparing. \ (n.) An effect produced or achieved; anything done or that comes to pass; an act; an event; a circumstance. \ (n.) Reality; actuality; truth; as, he, in fact, excelled all the rest; the fact is, he was beaten. \ (n.) The assertion or statement of a thing done or existing; sometimes, even when false, improperly put, by a transfer of meaning, for the thing done, or supposed to be done; a thing supposed or asserted to be done, history abounds with false facts.
ins factory n. a building or group of buildings where goods are made \ (n.) A house or place where factors, or commercial agents, reside, to transact business for their employers. \ (n.) The body of factors in any place; as, a chaplain to a British factory. \ (n.) A building, or collection of buildings, appropriated to the manufacture of goods; the place where workmen are employed in fabricating goods, wares, or utensils; a manufactory, a cotton factory.
ins fall v. to go down quickly; to come down; to drop to the ground or a lower position \ (v. t.) To Descend, either suddenly or gradually; particularly, to descend by the force of gravity; to drop; to sink; as, the apple falls; the tide falls; the mercury falls in the barometer. \ (v. t.) To cease to be erect; to take suddenly a recumbent posture; to become prostrate, a child totters and falls; a tree falls; a worshiper falls on his knees. \ (v. t.) To find a final outlet; to discharge its waters; to empty; -- with into, the river Rhone falls into the Mediterranean. \ (v. t.) To become prostrate and dead; to die; especially, to die by violence, as in battle. \ (v. t.) To cease to be active or strong; to die away; to lose strength; to subside; to become less intense, the wind falls. \ (v. t.) To issue forth into life; to be brought forth; -- said of the young of certain animals. \ (v. t.) To decline in power, glory, wealth, or importance; to become insignificant; to lose rank or position; to decline in weight, value, price etc.; to become less, the falls; stocks fell two points. \ (v. t.) To be overthrown or captured; to be destroyed. \ (v. t.) To descend in character or reputation; to become degraded; to sink into vice, error, or sin; to depart from the faith; to apostatize; to sin. \ (v. t.) To become insnared or embarrassed; to be entrapped; to be worse off than before; asm to fall into error; to fall into difficulties. \ (v. t.) To assume a look of shame or disappointment; to become or appear dejected; -- said of the countenance. \ (v. t.) To sink; to languish; to become feeble or faint, our spirits rise and fall with our fortunes. \ (v. t.) To pass somewhat suddenly, and passively, into a new state of body or mind; to become, to fall asleep; to fall into a passion; to fall in love; to fall into temptation. \ (v. t.) To happen; to to come to pass; to light; to befall; to issue; to terminate. \ (v. t.) To come; to occur; to arrive. \ (v. t.) To begin with haste, ardor, or vehemence; to rush or hurry, they fell to blows. \ (v. t.) To pass or be transferred by chance, lot, distribution, inheritance, or otherwise, the estate fell to his brother; the kingdom fell into the hands of his rivals. \ (v. t.) To belong or appertain. \ (v. t.) To be dropped or uttered carelessly, an unguarded expression fell from his lips; not a murmur fell from him. \ (v. t.) To let fall; to drop. \ (v. t.) To sink; to depress, to fall the voice. \ (v. t.) To diminish; to lessen or lower. \ (v. t.) To bring forth, to fall lambs. \ (v. t.) To fell; to cut down, to fall a tree. \ (n.) The act of falling; a dropping or descending be the force of gravity; descent, a fall from a horse, or from the yard of ship. \ (n.) The act of dropping or tumbling from an erect posture, he was walking on ice, and had a fall. \ (n.) Death; destruction; overthrow; ruin. \ (n.) Downfall; degradation; loss of greatness or office; termination of greatness, power, or dominion; ruin, the fall of the Roman empire.
ins family n. the group that includes children and their parents \ (v. t.) The collective body of persons who live in one house, and under one head or manager; a household, including parents, children, and servants, and, as the case may be, lodgers or boarders. \ (v. t.) The group comprising a husband and wife and their dependent children, constituting a fundamental unit in the organization of society. \ (v. t.) Those who descend from one common progenitor; a tribe, clan, or race; kindred; house; as, the human family; the family of Abraham; the father of a family. \ (v. t.) Course of descent; genealogy; line of ancestors; lineage. \ (v. t.) Honorable descent; noble or respectable stock, a man of family. \ (v. t.) A group of kindred or closely related individuals, a family of languages; a family of States; the chlorine family. \ (v. t.) A group of organisms, either animal or vegetable, related by certain points of resemblance in structure or development, more comprehensive than a genus, because it is usually based on fewer or less pronounced points of likeness. In zoology a family is less comprehesive than an order; in botany it is often considered the same thing as an order.
ins famous ad. known very well to many people \ (a.) Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of; distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense, chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition, for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate.
ins far ad. at, to or from a great distance \ (n.) A young pig, or a litter of pigs. \ (a.) Distant in any direction; not near; remote; mutually separated by a wide space or extent. \ (a.) Remote from purpose; contrary to design or wishes; as, far be it from me to justify cruelty. \ (a.) Remote in affection or obedience; at a distance, morally or spiritually; t enmity with; alienated. \ (a.) Widely different in nature or quality; opposite in character. \ (a.) The more distant of two, the far side (called also off side) of a horse, that is, the right side, or the one opposite to the rider when he mounts. \ (adv.) To a great extent or distance of space; widely, we are separated far from each other. \ (adv.) To a great distance in time from any point; remotely, he pushed his researches far into antiquity. \ (adv.) In great part, the day is far spent. \ (adv.) In a great proportion; by many degrees; very much; deeply; greatly.
ins farm n. land used to grow crops and animals for food \ (a. & n.) The rent of land, -- originally paid by reservation of part of its products. \ (a. & n.) The term or tenure of a lease of land for cultivation; a leasehold. \ (a. & n.) The land held under lease and by payment of rent for the purpose of cultivation. \ (a. & n.) Any tract of land devoted to agricultural purposes, under the management of a tenant or the owner. \ (a. & n.) A district of country leased (or farmed) out for the collection of the revenues of government. \ (a. & n.) A lease of the imposts on particular goods; as, the sugar farm, the silk farm. \ (v. t.) To lease or let for an equivalent, as land for a rent; to yield the use of to proceeds. \ (v. t.) To give up to another, as an estate, a business, the revenue, etc., on condition of receiving in return a percentage of what it yields, to farm the taxes. \ (v. t.) To take at a certain rent or rate. \ (v. t.) To devote (land) to agriculture; to cultivate, as land; to till, as a farm. \ (v. i.) To engage in the business of tilling the soil; to labor as a farmer.
ins farmer (n.) One who farms \ (n.) One who hires and cultivates a farm; a cultivator of leased ground; a tenant. \ (n.) One who is devoted to the tillage of the soil; one who cultivates a farm; an agriculturist; a husbandman. \ (n.) One who takes taxes, customs, excise, or other duties, to collect, either paying a fixed annuual rent for the privilege; as, a farmer of the revenues. \ (n.) The lord of the field, or one who farms the lot and cope of the crown.
ins fast ad. moving or working at great speed; quick \ (v. i.) To abstain from food; to omit to take nourishment in whole or in part; to go hungry. \ (v. i.) To practice abstinence as a religious exercise or duty; to abstain from food voluntarily for a time, for the mortification of the body or appetites, or as a token of grief, or humiliation and penitence. \ (v. i.) Abstinence from food; omission to take nourishment. \ (v. i.) Voluntary abstinence from food, for a space of time, as a spiritual discipline, or as a token of religious humiliation. \ (v. i.) A time of fasting, whether a day, week, or longer time; a period of abstinence from food or certain kinds of food; as, an annual fast. \ (v.) Firmly fixed; closely adhering; made firm; not loose, unstable, or easily moved; immovable, to make fast the door. \ (v.) Firm against attack; fortified by nature or art; impregnable; strong. \ (v.) Firm in adherence; steadfast; not easily separated or alienated; faithful, a fast friend. \ (v.) Permanent; not liable to fade by exposure to air or by washing; durable; lasting, fast colors. \ (v.) Tenacious; retentive. \ (v.) Not easily disturbed or broken; deep; sound. \ (v.) Moving rapidly; quick in mition; rapid; swift, a fast horse. \ (v.) Given to pleasure seeking; disregardful of restraint; reckless; wild; dissipated; dissolute, a fast man; a fast liver. \ (a.) In a fast, fixed, or firmly established manner; fixedly; firmly; immovably. \ (a.) In a fast or rapid manner; quickly; swiftly; extravagantly; wildly, to run fast; to live fast. \ (n.) That which fastens or holds; especially, (Naut.) a mooring rope, hawser, or chain; -- called, according to its position, a bow, head, quarter, breast, or stern fast; also, a post on a pier around which hawsers are passed in mooring. \ (n.) The shaft of a column, or trunk of pilaster. \ (a.) In such a condition, as to resilience, etc., as to make possible unusual rapidity of play or action, a fast racket, or tennis court; a fast track; a fast billiard table
ins fat n. tissue in the bodies of humans and animals used to store energy and to keep warm; ad. thick; heavy \ (n.) A large tub, cistern, or vessel; a vat. \ (n.) A measure of quantity, differing for different commodities. \ (superl.) Abounding with fat \ (superl.) Fleshy; characterized by fatness; plump; corpulent; not lean; as, a fat man; a fat ox. \ (superl.) Oily; greasy; unctuous; rich; -- said of food. \ (superl.) Exhibiting the qualities of a fat animal; coarse; heavy; gross; dull; stupid. \ (superl.) Fertile; productive, a fat soil; a fat pasture. \ (superl.) Rich; producing a large income; desirable, a fat benefice; a fat office; a fat job. \ (superl.) Abounding in riches; affluent; fortunate. \ (superl.) Of a character which enables the compositor to make large wages; -- said of matter containing blank, cuts, or many leads, etc., a fat take; a fat page. \ (n.) An oily liquid or greasy substance making up the main bulk of the adipose tissue of animals, and widely distributed in the seeds of plants. See Adipose tissue, under Adipose. \ (n.) The best or richest productions; the best part, to live on the fat of the land. \ (n.) Work. containing much blank, or its equivalent, and, therefore, profitable to the compositor. \ (a.) To make fat; to fatten; to make plump and fleshy with abundant food, to fat fowls or sheep. \ (v. i.) To grow fat, and fleshy.
ins father n. the male parent; a man who has a child or children \ (n.) One who has begotten a child, whether son or daughter; a generator; a male parent. \ (n.) A male ancestor more remote than a parent; a progenitor; especially, a first ancestor; a founder of a race or family; -- in the plural, fathers, ancestors. \ (n.) One who performs the offices of a parent by maintenance, affetionate care, counsel, or protection. \ (n.) A respectful mode of address to an old man. \ (n.) A senator of ancient Rome. \ (n.) A dignitary of the church, a superior of a convent, a confessor (called also father confessor), or a priest; also, the eldest member of a profession, or of a legislative assembly, etc. \ (n.) One of the chief esslesiastical authorities of the first centuries after Christ; -- often spoken of collectively as the Fathers; as, the Latin, Greek, or apostolic Fathers. \ (n.) One who, or that which, gives origin; an originator; a producer, author, or contriver; the first to practice any art, profession, or occupation; a distinguished example or teacher. \ (n.) The Supreme Being and Creator; God; in theology, the first person in the Trinity. \ (v. t.) To make one's self the father of; to beget. \ (v. t.) To take as one's own child; to adopt; hence, to assume as one's own work; to acknowledge one's self author of or responsible for (a statement, policy, etc.). \ (v. t.) To provide with a father.
ins feel v. to have or experience an emotion; to know by touching \ (v. t.) To perceive by the touch; to take cognizance of by means of the nerves of sensation distributed all over the body, especially by those of the skin; to have sensation excited by contact of (a thing) with the body or limbs. \ (v. t.) To touch; to handle; to examine by touching; as, feel this piece of silk; hence, to make trial of; to test; often with out. \ (v. t.) To perceive by the mind; to have a sense of; to experience; to be affected by; to be sensible of, or sensetive to, to feel pleasure; to feel pain. \ (v. t.) To take internal cognizance of; to be conscious of; to have an inward persuasion of. \ (v. t.) To perceive; to observe. \ (v. i.) To have perception by the touch, or by contact of anything with the nerves of sensation, especially those upon the surface of the body. \ (v. i.) To have the sensibilities moved or affected. \ (v. i.) To be conscious of an inward impression, state of mind, persuasion, physical condition, etc.; to perceive one's self to be; -- followed by an adjective describing the state, to feel assured, grieved, persuaded. \ (v. i.) To know with feeling; to be conscious, to know certainly or without misgiving. \ (v. i.) To appear to the touch; to give a perception; to produce an impression by the nerves of sensation; -- followed by an adjective describing the kind of sensation. \ (n.) Feeling; perception. \ (n.) A sensation communicated by touching; impression made upon one who touches or handles, this leather has a greasy feel.
ins feeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Feel \ (a.) Possessing great sensibility; easily affected or moved; as, a feeling heart. \ (a.) Expressive of great sensibility; attended by, or evincing, sensibility, he made a feeling representation of his wrongs. \ (n.) The sense by which the mind, through certain nerves of the body, perceives external objects, or certain states of the body itself; that one of the five senses which resides in the general nerves of sensation distributed over the body, especially in its surface; the sense of touch; nervous sensibility to external objects. \ (n.) An act or state of perception by the sense above described; an act of apprehending any object whatever; an act or state of apprehending the state of the soul itself; consciousness. \ (n.) The capacity of the soul for emotional states; a high degree of susceptibility to emotions or states of the sensibility not dependent on the body, a man of feeling; a man destitute of feeling. \ (n.) Any state or condition of emotion; the exercise of the capacity for emotion; any mental state whatever, a right or a wrong feeling in the heart; our angry or kindly feelings; a feeling of pride or of humility. \ (n.) That quality of a work of art which embodies the mental emotion of the artist, and is calculated to affect similarly the spectator.
ins few ad. not many; a small number of \ (superl.) Not many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicating a small portion of units or individuals constituing a whole; often, by ellipsis of a noun, a few people.
ins field n. an area of open land, usually used to grow crops or to raise animals \ (n.) Cleared land; land suitable for tillage or pasture; cultivated ground; the open country. \ (n.) A piece of land of considerable size; esp., a piece inclosed for tillage or pasture. \ (n.) A place where a battle is fought; also, the battle itself. \ (n.) An open space; an extent; an expanse. \ (n.) Any blank space or ground on which figures are drawn or projected. \ (n.) The space covered by an optical instrument at one view. \ (n.) The whole surface of an escutcheon, so much of it is shown unconcealed by the different bearings upon it. See Illust. of Fess, where the field is represented as gules (red), while the fess is argent (silver). \ (n.) An unresticted or favorable opportunity for action, operation, or achievement; province; room. \ (n.) A collective term for all the competitors in any outdoor contest or trial, or for all except the favorites in the betting. \ (n.) That part of the grounds reserved for the players which is outside of the diamond; -- called also outfield. \ (v. i.) To take the field. \ (v. i.) To stand out in the field, ready to catch, stop, or throw the ball. \ (v. t.) To catch, throw, etc. (the ball), as a fielder.
ins fifteen (a.) Five and ten; one more than fourteen. \ (n.) The sum of five and ten; fifteen units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing fifteen units, as 15, or xv.
ins fifty (a.) Five times ten; as, fifty men. \ (n.) The sum of five tens; fifty units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing fifty units, as 50, or l.
ins fight v. to use violence or force; to attempt to defeat or destroy an enemy; n. the use of force; a battle \ (v. i.) To strive or contend for victory, with armies or in single combat; to attempt to defeat, subdue, or destroy an enemy, either by blows or weapons; to contend in arms; -- followed by with or against. \ (v. i.) To act in opposition to anything; to struggle against; to contend; to strive; to make resistance. \ (v. t.) To carry on, or wage, as a conflict, or battle; to win or gain by struggle, as one's way; to sustain by fighting, as a cause. \ (v. t.) To contend with in battle; to war against; as, they fought the enemy in two pitched battles; the sloop fought the frigate for three hours. \ (v. t.) To cause to fight; to manage or maneuver in a fight, to fight cocks; to fight one's ship. \ (v. i.) A battle; an engagement; a contest in arms; a combat; a violent conflict or struggle for victory, between individuals or between armies, ships, or navies, etc. \ (v. i.) A struggle or contest of any kind. \ (v. i.) Strength or disposition for fighting; pugnacity, he has a great deal of fight in him. \ (v. i.) A screen for the combatants in ships.
ins film v. to record something so it can be seen again; to make a motion picture or movie; n. a thin piece of material for making pictures with a camera; a movie \ (n.) A thin skin; a pellicle; a membranous covering, causing opacity; hence, any thin, slight covering. \ (n.) A slender thread, as that of a cobweb. \ (v. t.) To cover with a thin skin or pellicle. \ (n.) The layer, usually of gelatin or collodion, containing the sensitive salts of photographic plates; also, the flexible sheet of celluloid or the like on which this layer is sometimes mounted.
ins find v. to discover or learn something by searching or by accident; to decide a court case ("The jury finds the man guilty of murder.") \ (v. t.) To meet with, or light upon, accidentally; to gain the first sight or knowledge of, as of something new, or unknown; hence, to fall in with, as a person. \ (v. t.) To learn by experience or trial; to perceive; to experience; to discover by the intellect or the feelings; to detect; to feel. \ (v. t.) To come upon by seeking; as, to find something lost. \ (v. t.) To discover by sounding, to find bottom. \ (v. t.) To discover by study or experiment direct to an object or end, water is found to be a compound substance. \ (v. t.) To gain, as the object of desire or effort, to find leisure; to find means. \ (v. t.) To attain to; to arrive at; to acquire. \ (v. t.) To provide for; to supply; to furnish, to find food for workemen; he finds his nephew in money. \ (v. t.) To arrive at, as a conclusion; to determine as true; to establish, to find a verdict; to find a true bill (of indictment) against an accused person. \ (v. i.) To determine an issue of fact, and to declare such a determination to a court, the jury find for the plaintiff. \ (n.) Anything found; a discovery of anything valuable; especially, a deposit, discovered by archaeologists, of objects of prehistoric or unknown origin.
ins fine n. a payment ordered by a court to punish someone for a crime; ad. very good; very small or thin \ (superl.) Finished; brought to perfection; refined; hence, free from impurity; excellent; superior; elegant; worthy of admiration; accomplished; beautiful. \ (superl.) Aiming at show or effect; loaded with ornament; overdressed or overdecorated; showy. \ (superl.) Nice; delicate; subtle; exquisite; artful; skillful; dexterous. \ (superl.) Not coarse, gross, or heavy \ (superl.) Not gross; subtile; thin; tenous. \ (superl.) Not coarse; comminuted; in small particles; as, fine sand or flour. \ (superl.) Not thick or heavy; slender; filmy, a fine thread. \ (superl.) Thin; attenuate; keen, a fine edge. \ (superl.) Made of fine materials; light, fine linen or silk. \ (superl.) Having (such) a proportion of pure metal in its composition, coins nine tenths fine. \ (superl.) (Used ironically.) \ (a.) To make fine; to refine; to purify, to clarify, to fine gold. \ (a.) To make finer, or less coarse, as in bulk, texture, etc.; as. to fine the soil. \ (a.) To change by fine gradations; as (Naut.), to fine down a ship's lines, to diminish her lines gradually. \ (n.) End; conclusion; termination; extinction. \ (n.) A sum of money paid as the settlement of a claim, or by way of terminating a matter in dispute; especially, a payment of money imposed upon a party as a punishment for an offense; a mulct. \ (n.) A final agreement concerning lands or rents between persons, as the lord and his vassal. \ (n.) A sum of money or price paid for obtaining a benefit, favor, or privilege, as for admission to a copyhold, or for obtaining or renewing a lease. \ (n.) To impose a pecuniary penalty upon for an offense or breach of law; to set a fine on by judgment of a court; to punish by fine; to mulct, the trespassers were fined ten dollars. \ (v. i.) To pay a fine. See Fine, n., 3 (b). \ (v. t.) To finish; to cease; or to cause to cease. \ (adv.) Finely; well; elegantly; fully; delicately; mincingly. \ (adv.) In a manner so that the driven ball strikes the object ball so far to one side as to be deflected but little, the object ball being driven to one side. \ (v. i.) To become fine (in any one of various senses), the ale will fine; the weather fined.
ins finger (n.) One of the five terminating members of the hand; a digit; esp., one of the four extermities of the hand, other than the thumb. \ (n.) Anything that does work of a finger; as, the pointer of a clock, watch, or other registering machine; especially (Mech.) a small projecting rod, wire, or piece, which is brought into contact with an object to effect, direct, or restrain a motion. \ (n.) The breadth of a finger, or the fourth part of the hand; a measure of nearly an inch; also, the length of finger, a measure in domestic use in the United States, of about four and a half inches or one eighth of a yard. \ (n.) Skill in the use of the fingers, as in playing upon a musical instrument. \ (v. t.) To touch with the fingers; to handle; to meddle with. \ (v. t.) To touch lightly; to toy with. \ (v. t.) To perform on an instrument of music. \ (v. t.) To mark the notes of (a piece of music) so as to guide the fingers in playing. \ (v. t.) To take thievishly; to pilfer; to purloin. \ (v. t.) To execute, as any delicate work. \ (v. i.) To use the fingers in playing on an instrument.
ins finish v. to complete; to end \ (v. t.) To arrive at the end of; to bring to an end; to put an end to; to make an end of; to terminate. \ (v. t.) To bestow the last required labor upon; to complete; to bestow the utmost possible labor upon; to perfect; to accomplish; to polish. \ (v. i.) To come to an end; to terminate. \ (v. i.) To end; to die. \ (n.) That which finishes, puts an end to/ or perfects. \ (n.) The joiner work and other finer work required for the completion of a building, especially of the interior. See Inside finish, and Outside finish. \ (n.) The labor required to give final completion to any work; hence, minute detail, careful elaboration, or the like. \ (n.) See Finishing coat, under Finishing. \ (n.) The result of completed labor, as on the surface of an object; manner or style of finishing; as, a rough, dead, or glossy finish given to cloth, stone, metal, etc. \ (n.) Completion; -- opposed to start, or beginning.
ins fire v. to shoot a gun; n. the heat and light produced by something burning \ (n.) The evolution of light and heat in the combustion of bodies; combustion; state of ignition. \ (n.) Fuel in a state of combustion, as on a hearth, or in a stove or a furnace. \ (n.) The burning of a house or town; a conflagration. \ (n.) Anything which destroys or affects like fire. \ (n.) Ardor of passion, whether love or hate; excessive warmth; consuming violence of temper. \ (n.) Liveliness of imagination or fancy; intellectual and moral enthusiasm; capacity for ardor and zeal. \ (n.) Splendor; brilliancy; luster; hence, a star. \ (n.) Torture by burning; severe trial or affliction. \ (n.) The discharge of firearms; firing; as, the troops were exposed to a heavy fire. \ (v. t.) To set on fire; to kindle, to fire a house or chimney; to fire a pile. \ (v. t.) To subject to intense heat; to bake; to burn in a kiln, to fire pottery. \ (v. t.) To inflame; to irritate, as the passions, to fire the soul with anger, pride, or revenge. \ (v. t.) To animate; to give life or spirit to, to fire the genius of a young man. \ (v. t.) To feed or serve the fire of, to fire a boiler. \ (v. t.) To light up as if by fire; to illuminate. \ (v. t.) To cause to explode, to fire a torpedo; to disharge, to fire a musket or cannon; to fire cannon balls, rockets, etc. \ (v. t.) To drive by fire. \ (v. t.) To cauterize. \ (v. i.) To take fire; to be kindled; to kindle. \ (v. i.) To be irritated or inflamed with passion. \ (v. i.) To discharge artillery or firearms, they fired on the town.
ins first ad. coming before all others \ (a.) Preceding all others of a series or kind; the ordinal of one; earliest; as, the first day of a month; the first year of a reign. \ (a.) Foremost; in front of, or in advance of, all others. \ (a.) Most eminent or exalted; most excellent; chief; highest, Demosthenes was the first orator of Greece. \ (adv.) Before any other person or thing in time, space, rank, etc.; -- much used in composition with adjectives and participles. \ (n.) The upper part of a duet, trio, either vocal or instrumental; -- so called because it generally expresses the air, and has a preeminence in the combined effect.
ins fish n. a creature that lives and can breathe in water \ (n.) A counter, used in various games. \ (pl. ) of Fish \ (n.) A name loosely applied in popular usage to many animals of diverse characteristics, living in the water. \ (n.) An oviparous, vertebrate animal usually having fins and a covering scales or plates. It breathes by means of gills, and lives almost entirely in the water. See Pisces. \ (n.) The twelfth sign of the zodiac; Pisces. \ (n.) The flesh of fish, used as food. \ (n.) A purchase used to fish the anchor. \ (n.) A piece of timber, somewhat in the form of a fish, used to strengthen a mast or yard. \ (v. i.) To attempt to catch fish; to be employed in taking fish, by any means, as by angling or drawing a net. \ (v. i.) To seek to obtain by artifice, or indirectly to seek to draw forth; as, to fish for compliments. \ (v. t.) To catch; to draw out or up, to fish up an anchor. \ (v. t.) To search by raking or sweeping. \ (v. t.) To try with a fishing rod; to catch fish in, to fish a stream. \ (v. t.) To strengthen (a beam, mast, etc.), or unite end to end (two timbers, railroad rails, etc.) by bolting a plank, timber, or plate to the beam, mast, or timbers, lengthwise on one or both sides. See Fish joint, under Fish, n.
ins five (a.) Four and one added; one more than four. \ (n.) The number next greater than four, and less than six; five units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing this number, as 5, or V.
ins flat ad. smooth; having no high places \ (superl.) Having an even and horizontal surface, or nearly so, without prominences or depressions; level without inclination; plane. \ (superl.) Lying at full length, or spread out, upon the ground; level with the ground or earth; prostrate; as, to lie flat on the ground; hence, fallen; laid low; ruined; destroyed. \ (superl.) Wanting relief; destitute of variety; without points of prominence and striking interest. \ (superl.) Tasteless; stale; vapid; insipid; dead, fruit or drink flat to the taste. \ (superl.) Unanimated; dull; uninteresting; without point or spirit; monotonous, a flat speech or composition. \ (superl.) Lacking liveliness of commercial exchange and dealings; depressed, the market is flat. \ (superl.) Clear; unmistakable; peremptory; absolute; positive; downright. \ (superl.) Below the true pitch, as applied to intervals, minor, or lower by a half step, a flat seventh; A flat. \ (superl.) Not sharp or shrill; not acute, a flat sound. \ (superl.) Sonant; vocal; -- applied to any one of the sonant or vocal consonants, as distinguished from a nonsonant (or sharp) consonant. \ (adv.) In a flat manner; directly; flatly. \ (adv.) Without allowance for accrued interest. \ (n.) A level surface, without elevation, relief, or prominences; an extended plain; specifically, in the United States, a level tract along the along the banks of a river, the Mohawk Flats. \ (n.) A level tract lying at little depth below the surface of water, or alternately covered and left bare by the tide; a shoal; a shallow; a strand. \ (n.) Something broad and flat in form \ (n.) A flat-bottomed boat, without keel, and of small draught. \ (n.) A straw hat, broad-brimmed and low-crowned. \ (n.) A car without a roof, the body of which is a platform without sides; a platform car. \ (n.) A platform on wheel, upon which emblematic designs, etc., are carried in processions. \ (n.) The flat part, or side, of anything, the broad side of a blade, as distinguished from its edge. \ (n.) A floor, loft, or story in a building; especially, a floor of a house, which forms a complete residence in itself. \ (n.) A horizontal vein or ore deposit auxiliary to a main vein; also, any horizontal portion of a vein not elsewhere horizontal. \ (n.) A dull fellow; a simpleton; a numskull. \ (n.) A character [/] before a note, indicating a tone which is a half step or semitone lower. \ (n.) A homaloid space or extension. \ (v. t.) To make flat; to flatten; to level. \ (v. t.) To render dull, or spiritless; to depress. \ (v. t.) To depress in tone, as a musical note, to lower in pitch by half a tone. \ (v. i.) To become flat, or flattened; to sink or fall to an even surface. \ (v. i.) To fall form the pitch. \ (a.) Having a head at a very obtuse angle to the shaft; -- said of a club. \ (a.) Flattening at the ends; -- said of certain fruits.
ins floor n. the bottom part of a room for walking on ("The book fell to the floor."); the level of a building ("The fire was on the first floor.") \ (n.) The bottom or lower part of any room; the part upon which we stand and upon which the movables in the room are supported. \ (n.) The structure formed of beams, girders, etc., with proper covering, which divides a building horizontally into stories. Floor in sense 1 is, then, the upper surface of floor in sense 2. \ (n.) The surface, or the platform, of a structure on which we walk or travel; as, the floor of a bridge. \ (n.) A story of a building. See Story. \ (n.) The part of the house assigned to the members. \ (n.) The right to speak. \ (n.) That part of the bottom of a vessel on each side of the keelson which is most nearly horizontal. \ (n.) The rock underlying a stratified or nearly horizontal deposit. \ (n.) A horizontal, flat ore body. \ (v. t.) To cover with a floor; to furnish with a floor, to floor a house with pine boards. \ (v. t.) To strike down or lay level with the floor; to knock down; hence, to silence by a conclusive answer or retort, to floor an opponent. \ (v. t.) To finish or make an end of, to floor a college examination.
ins flower n. the colored part of plants that carry seeds \ (n.) In the popular sense, the bloom or blossom of a plant; the showy portion, usually of a different color, shape, and texture from the foliage. \ (n.) That part of a plant destined to produce seed, and hence including one or both of the sexual organs; an organ or combination of the organs of reproduction, whether inclosed by a circle of foliar parts or not. A complete flower consists of two essential parts, the stamens and the pistil, and two floral envelopes, the corolla and callyx. In mosses the flowers consist of a few special leaves surrounding or subtending organs called archegonia. See Blossom, and Corolla. \ (n.) The fairest, freshest, and choicest part of anything; as, the flower of an army, or of a family; the state or time of freshness and bloom, the flower of life, that is, youth. \ (n.) Grain pulverized; meal; flour. \ (n.) A substance in the form of a powder, especially when condensed from sublimation, the flowers of sulphur. \ (n.) A figure of speech; an ornament of style. \ (n.) Ornamental type used chiefly for borders around pages, cards, etc. \ (n.) Menstrual discharges. \ (v. i.) To blossom; to bloom; to expand the petals, as a plant; to produce flowers, this plant flowers in June. \ (v. i.) To come into the finest or fairest condition. \ (v. i.) To froth; to ferment gently, as new beer. \ (v. i.) To come off as flowers by sublimation. \ (v. t.) To embellish with flowers; to adorn with imitated flowers, flowered silk.
ins fly v. to move through the air with wings, like a bird or airplane; to travel in an airplane or flying vehicle
ins food n. that which is taken in by all living things for energy, strength and growth \ (n.) What is fed upon; that which goes to support life by being received within, and assimilated by, the organism of an animal or a plant; nutriment; aliment; especially, what is eaten by animals for nourishment. \ (n.) Anything that instructs the intellect, excites the feelings, or molds habits of character; that which nourishes. \ (v. t.) To supply with food.
ins fool v. to make someone believe something that is not true; to trick; n. a person who is tricked easily \ (n.) A compound of gooseberries scalded and crushed, with cream; -- commonly called gooseberry fool. \ (n.) One destitute of reason, or of the common powers of understanding; an idiot; a natural. \ (n.) A person deficient in intellect; one who acts absurdly, or pursues a course contrary to the dictates of wisdom; one without judgment; a simpleton; a dolt. \ (n.) One who acts contrary to moral and religious wisdom; a wicked person. \ (n.) One who counterfeits folly; a professional jester or buffoon; a retainer formerly kept to make sport, dressed fantastically in motley, with ridiculous accouterments. \ (v. i.) To play the fool; to trifle; to toy; to spend time in idle sport or mirth. \ (v. t.) To infatuate; to make foolish. \ (v. t.) To use as a fool; to deceive in a shameful or mortifying manner; to impose upon; to cheat by inspiring foolish confidence; as, to fool one out of his money.
ins foot n. the bottom part of the leg; the part of the body that touches the ground when a person or animal walks \ (n.) The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., the part below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which it rests when standing, or moves. See Manus, and Pes. \ (n.) The muscular locomotive organ of a mollusk. It is a median organ arising from the ventral region of body, often in the form of a flat disk, as in snails. See Illust. of Buccinum. \ (n.) That which corresponds to the foot of a man or animal; as, the foot of a table; the foot of a stocking. \ (n.) The lowest part or base; the ground part; the bottom, as of a mountain or column; also, the last of a row or series; the end or extremity, esp. if associated with inferiority, the foot of a hill; the foot of the procession; the foot of a class; the foot of the bed. \ (n.) Fundamental principle; basis; plan; -- used only in the singular. \ (n.) Recognized condition; rank; footing; -- used only in the singular. \ (n.) A measure of length equivalent to twelve inches; one third of a yard. See Yard. \ (n.) Soldiers who march and fight on foot; the infantry, usually designated as the foot, in distinction from the cavalry. \ (n.) A combination of syllables consisting a metrical element of a verse, the syllables being formerly distinguished by their quantity or length, but in modern poetry by the accent. \ (n.) The lower edge of a sail. \ (v. i.) To tread to measure or music; to dance; to trip; to skip. \ (v. i.) To walk; -- opposed to ride or fly. \ (v. t.) To kick with the foot; to spurn. \ (v. t.) To set on foot; to establish; to land. \ (v. t.) To tread, to foot the green. \ (v. t.) To sum up, as the numbers in a column; -- sometimes with up, to foot (or foot up) an account. \ (v. t.) The size or strike with the talon. \ (v. t.) To renew the foot of, as of stocking.
ins football (n.) An inflated ball to be kicked in sport, usually made in India rubber, or a bladder incased in Leather. \ (n.) The game of kicking the football by opposing parties of players between goals.
ins for prep. because of ("He is famous for his work."); in exchange ("Give me one dollar for the book."); through space or time ("They travelled for one hour."); representative of ("I speak for all people."); to be employed by ("She works for a computer company.") \ (prep.) In the most general sense, indicating that in consideration of, in view of, or with reference to, which anything is done or takes place. \ (prep.) Indicating the antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or inducement accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of anything; that on account of which a thing is or is done. \ (prep.) Indicating the remoter and indirect object of an act; the end or final cause with reference to which anything is, acts, serves, or is done. \ (prep.) Indicating that in favor of which, or in promoting which, anything is, or is done; hence, in behalf of; in favor of; on the side of; -- opposed to against. \ (prep.) Indicating that toward which the action of anything is directed, or the point toward which motion is made; /ntending to go to. \ (prep.) Indicating that on place of or instead of which anything acts or serves, or that to which a substitute, an equivalent, a compensation, or the like, is offered or made; instead of, or place of. \ (prep.) Indicating that in the character of or as being which anything is regarded or treated; to be, or as being. \ (prep.) Indicating that instead of which something else controls in the performing of an action, or that in spite of which anything is done, occurs, or is, equivalent to notwithstanding, in spite of; -- generally followed by all, aught, anything, etc. \ (prep.) Indicating the space or time through which an action or state extends, during; in or through the space or time of. \ (prep.) Indicating that in prevention of which, or through fear of which, anything is done. \ (conj.) Because; by reason that; for that; indicating, in Old English, the reason of anything. \ (conj.) Since; because; introducing a reason of something before advanced, a cause, motive, explanation, justification, of an action related or a statement made. It is logically nearly equivalent to since, or because, but connects less closely, and is sometimes used as a very general introduction to something suggested by what has gone before. \ (n.) One who takes, or that which is said on, the affrimative side; that which is said in favor of some one or something; -- the antithesis of against, and commonly used in connection with it.
ins forest n. a place of many trees \ (n.) An extensive wood; a large tract of land covered with trees; in the United States, a wood of native growth, or a tract of woodland which has never been cultivated. \ (n.) A large extent or precinct of country, generally waste and woody, belonging to the sovereign, set apart for the keeping of game for his use, not inclosed, but distinguished by certain limits, and protected by certain laws, courts, and officers of its own. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a forest; sylvan. \ (v. t.) To cover with trees or wood.
ins forget v. to not remember \ (v. t.) To lose the remembrance of; to let go from the memory; to cease to have in mind; not to think of; also, to lose the power of; to cease from doing. \ (v. t.) To treat with inattention or disregard; to slight; to neglect.
ins fork (n.) An instrument consisting of a handle with a shank terminating in two or more prongs or tines, which are usually of metal, parallel and slightly curved; -- used from piercing, holding, taking up, or pitching anything. \ (n.) Anything furcate or like a fork in shape, or furcate at the extremity; as, a tuning fork. \ (n.) One of the parts into which anything is furcated or divided; a prong; a branch of a stream, a road, etc.; a barbed point, as of an arrow. \ (n.) The place where a division or a union occurs; the angle or opening between two branches or limbs, the fork of a river, a tree, or a road. \ (n.) The gibbet. \ (v. i.) To shoot into blades, as corn. \ (v. i.) To divide into two or more branches, or a stream forks. \ (v. t.) To raise, or pitch with a fork, as hay; to dig or turn over with a fork, as the soil.
ins forty (a.) Four times ten; thirty-nine and one more. \ (n.) The sum of four tens; forty units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol expressing forty units; as, 40, or xl.
ins four (a.) One more than three; twice two. \ (n.) The sum of four units; four units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing four units, as 4 or iv. \ (n.) Four things of the same kind, esp. four horses; as, a chariot and four.
ins fourteen (a.) Four and ten more; twice seven. \ (n.) The sum of ten and four; forteen units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing fourteen, as 14 or xiv.
ins fox (n.) A carnivorous animal of the genus Vulpes, family Canidae, of many species. The European fox (V. vulgaris or V. vulpes), the American red fox (V. fulvus), the American gray fox (V. Virginianus), and the arctic, white, or blue, fox (V. lagopus) are well-known species. \ (n.) The European dragonet. \ (n.) The fox shark or thrasher shark; -- called also sea fox. See Thrasher shark, under Shark. \ (n.) A sly, cunning fellow. \ (n.) Rope yarn twisted together, and rubbed with tar; -- used for seizings or mats. \ (n.) A sword; -- so called from the stamp of a fox on the blade, or perhaps of a wolf taken for a fox. \ (n.) A tribe of Indians which, with the Sacs, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin; -- called also Outagamies. \ (n.) To intoxicate; to stupefy with drink. \ (n.) To make sour, as beer, by causing it to ferment. \ (n.) To repair the feet of, as of boots, with new front upper leather, or to piece the upper fronts of. \ (v. i.) To turn sour; -- said of beer, etc., when it sours in fermenting.
ins free v. to release; ad. not controlled by another or by outside forces; not in prison; independent; not limited by rules; without cost \ (superl.) Exempt from subjection to the will of others; not under restraint, control, or compulsion; able to follow one's own impulses, desires, or inclinations; determining one's own course of action; not dependent; at liberty. \ (superl.) Not under an arbitrary or despotic government; subject only to fixed laws regularly and fairly administered, and defended by them from encroachments upon natural or acquired rights; enjoying political liberty. \ (superl.) Liberated, by arriving at a certain age, from the control of parents, guardian, or master. \ (superl.) Not confined or imprisoned; released from arrest; liberated; at liberty to go. \ (superl.) Not subjected to the laws of physical necessity; capable of voluntary activity; endowed with moral liberty; -- said of the will. \ (superl.) Clear of offense or crime; guiltless; innocent. \ (superl.) Unconstrained by timidity or distrust; unreserved; ingenuous; frank; familiar; communicative. \ (superl.) Unrestrained; immoderate; lavish; licentious; -- used in a bad sense. \ (superl.) Not close or parsimonious; liberal; open-handed; as, free with his money. \ (superl.) Exempt; clear; released; not encumbered or troubled with, free from pain; free from a burden; -- followed by from, or, rarely, by of. \ (superl.) Characteristic of one acting without restraint; charming; easy. \ (superl.) Ready; eager; acting without spurring or whipping; spirited, a free horse. \ (superl.) Invested with a particular freedom or franchise; enjoying certain immunities or privileges; admitted to special rights; -- followed by of. \ (superl.) Thrown open, or made accessible, to all; to be enjoyed without limitations; unrestricted; not obstructed, engrossed, or appropriated; open; -- said of a thing to be possessed or enjoyed, a free school. \ (superl.) Not gained by importunity or purchase; gratuitous; spontaneous, free admission; a free gift. \ (superl.) Not arbitrary or despotic; assuring liberty; defending individual rights against encroachment by any person or class; instituted by a free people; -- said of a government, institutions, etc. \ (superl.) Certain or honorable; the opposite of base, free service; free socage. \ (superl.) Privileged or individual; the opposite of common, a free fishery; a free warren. \ (superl.) Not united or combined with anything else; separated; dissevered; unattached; at liberty to escape, free carbonic acid gas; free cells. \ (adv.) Freely; willingly. \ (adv.) Without charge, children admitted free. \ (a.) To make free; to set at liberty; to rid of that which confines, limits, embarrasses, oppresses, etc.; to release; to disengage; to clear, and sometimes by off, to free a captive or a slave; to be freed of these inconveniences. \ (a.) To remove, as something that confines or bars; to relieve from the constraint of. \ (a.) To frank.
ins fresh ad. newly made or gathered; recent \ (superl) Possessed of original life and vigor; new and strong; unimpaired; sound. \ (superl) New; original; additional. \ (superl) Lately produced, gathered, or prepared for market; not stale; not dried or preserved; not wilted, faded, or tainted; in good condition; as, fresh vegetables, flowers, eggs, meat, fruit, etc.; recently made or obtained; occurring again; repeated, a fresh supply of goods; fresh tea, raisins; lately come or made public, fresh news; recently taken from a well or spring, fresh water. \ (superl) Youthful; florid, these fresh nymphs. \ (superl) In a raw, green, or untried state; uncultivated; uncultured; unpracticed, a fresh hand on a ship. \ (superl) Renewed in vigor, alacrity, or readiness for action, fresh for a combat; hence, tending to renew in vigor; rather strong; cool or brisk, a fresh wind. \ (superl) Not salt, fresh water, in distinction from that which is from the sea, or brackish; fresh meat, in distinction from that which is pickled or salted. \ (n.) A stream or spring of fresh water. \ (n.) A flood; a freshet. \ (n.) The mingling of fresh water with salt in rivers or bays, as by means of a flood of fresh water flowing toward or into the sea. \ (v. t.) To refresh; to freshen.
ins friend n. a person one likes and trusts \ (n.) One who entertains for another such sentiments of esteem, respect, and affection that he seeks his society aud welfare; a wellwisher; an intimate associate; sometimes, an attendant. \ (n.) One not inimical or hostile; one not a foe or enemy; also, one of the same nation, party, kin, etc., whose friendly feelings may be assumed. The word is some times used as a term of friendly address. \ (n.) One who looks propitiously on a cause, an institution, a project, and the like; a favorer; a promoter; as, a friend to commerce, to poetry, to an institution. \ (n.) One of a religious sect characterized by disuse of outward rites and an ordained ministry, by simplicity of dress and speech, and esp. by opposition to war and a desire to live at peace with all men. They are popularly called Quakers. \ (n.) A paramour of either sex. \ (v. t.) To act as the friend of; to favor; to countenance; to befriend.
ins friendly (a.) Having the temper and disposition of a friend; disposed to promote the good of another; kind; favorable. \ (a.) Appropriate to, or implying, friendship; befitting friends; amicable. \ (a.) Not hostile; as, a friendly power or state. \ (a.) Promoting the good of any person; favorable; propitious; serviceable, a friendly breeze or gale. \ (adv.) In the manner of friends; amicably; like friends. \ (n.) A friendly person; -- usually applied to natives friendly to foreign settlers or invaders.
ins frog (n.) An amphibious animal of the genus Rana and related genera, of many species. Frogs swim rapidly, and take long leaps on land. Many of the species utter loud notes in the springtime. \ (n.) The triangular prominence of the hoof, in the middle of the sole of the foot of the horse, and other animals; the fourchette. \ (n.) A supporting plate having raised ribs that form continuations of the rails, to guide the wheels where one track branches from another or crosses it. \ (n.) An oblong cloak button, covered with netted thread, and fastening into a loop instead of a button hole. \ (n.) The loop of the scabbard of a bayonet or sword. \ (v. t.) To ornament or fasten (a coat, etc.) with trogs. See Frog, n., 4.
ins from prep. having a person, place or thing as a beginning or cause ("It is a message from the president."); at a place distant, not near ("The school is five kilometers from my home."); because of ("He is suffering from cancer.") \ (prep.) Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the aritithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony.
ins front n. the forward part; the opposite of back; the beginning; the first part \ (n.) The forehead or brow, the part of the face above the eyes; sometimes, also, the whole face. \ (n.) The forehead, countenance, or personal presence, as expressive of character or temper, and especially, of boldness of disposition, sometimes of impudence; seeming; as, a bold front; a hardened front. \ (n.) The part or surface of anything which seems to look out, or to be directed forward; the fore or forward part; the foremost rank; the van; -- the opposite to back or rear, the front of a house; the front of an army. \ (n.) A position directly before the face of a person, or before the foremost part of a thing, in front of un person, of the troops, or of a house. \ (n.) The most conspicuous part. \ (n.) That which covers the foremost part of the head: a front piece of false hair worn by women. \ (n.) The beginning. \ (a.) Of or relating to the front or forward part; having a position in front; foremost, a front view. \ (v. t.) To oppose face to face; to oppose directly; to meet in a hostile manner. \ (v. t.) To appear before; to meet. \ (v. t.) To face toward; to have the front toward; to confront, the house fronts the street. \ (v. t.) To stand opposed or opposite to, or over against as, his house fronts the church. \ (v. t.) To adorn in front; to supply a front to, to front a house with marble; to front a head with laurel. \ (v. t.) To have or turn the face or front in any direction, the house fronts toward the east. \ (n.) All the works along one side of the polygon inclosing the site which is fortified. \ (n.) The middle of the upper part of the tongue, -- the part of the tongue which is more or less raised toward the palate in the pronunciation of certain sounds, as the vowel i in machine, e in bed, and consonant y in you. See Guide to Pronunciation, /10. \ (n.) The call boy whose turn it is to answer the call, which is often the word "front," used as an exclamation.
ins fruit n. food from trees and plants \ (v. t.) Whatever is produced for the nourishment or enjoyment of man or animals by the processes of vegetable growth, as corn, grass, cotton, flax, etc.; -- commonly used in the plural. \ (v. t.) The pulpy, edible seed vessels of certain plants, especially those grown on branches above ground, as apples, oranges, grapes, melons, berries, etc. See 3. \ (v. t.) The ripened ovary of a flowering plant, with its contents and whatever parts are consolidated with it. \ (v. t.) The spore cases or conceptacles of flowerless plants, as of ferns, mosses, algae, with the spores contained in them. \ (v. t.) The produce of animals; offspring; young; as, the fruit of the womb, of the loins, of the body. \ (v. t.) That which is produced; the effect or consequence of any action; advantageous or desirable product or result; disadvantageous or evil consequence or effect, the fruits of labor, of self-denial, of intemperance. \ (v. i.) To bear fruit.
ins full ad. containing as much as a person or thing can hold; complete \ (Compar.) Filled up, having within its limits all that it can contain; supplied; not empty or vacant; -- said primarily of hollow vessels, and hence of anything else; as, a cup full of water; a house full of people. \ (Compar.) Abundantly furnished or provided; sufficient in. quantity, quality, or degree; copious; plenteous; ample; adequate, a full meal; a full supply; a full voice; a full compensation; a house full of furniture. \ (Compar.) Not wanting in any essential quality; complete, entire; perfect, a full narrative; a person of full age; a full stop; a full face; the full moon. \ (Compar.) Sated; surfeited. \ (Compar.) Having the mind filled with ideas; stocked with knowledge; stored with information. \ (Compar.) Having the attention, thoughts, etc., absorbed in any matter, and the feelings more or less excited by it, to be full of some project. \ (Compar.) Filled with emotions. \ (Compar.) Impregnated; made pregnant. \ (n.) Complete measure; utmost extent; the highest state or degree. \ (adv.) Quite; to the same degree; without abatement or diminution; with the whole force or effect; thoroughly; completely; exactly; entirely. \ (v. i.) To become full or wholly illuminated, the moon fulls at midnight. \ (n.) To thicken by moistening, heating, and pressing, as cloth; to mill; to make compact; to scour, cleanse, and thicken in a mill. \ (v. i.) To become fulled or thickened, this material fulls well.
ins fun n. anything that is pleasing and causes happiness \ (n.) Sport; merriment; frolicsome amusement.
ins funny (superl.) Droll; comical; amusing; laughable. \ (n.) A clinkerbuit, narrow boat for sculling.
ins future n. time after now ("We can talk about it in the future."); ad. in the time to come ("All future meetings will be held in this room.") \ (v. i.) That is to be or come hereafter; that will exist at any time after the present; as, the next moment is future, to the present. \ (a.) Time to come; time subsequent to the present (as, the future shall be as the present); collectively, events that are to happen in time to come. \ (a.) The possibilities of the future; -- used especially of prospective success or advancement, he had great future before him. \ (a.) A future tense.
ins game n. an activity with rules in which people or teams play or compete, usually sports \ (n.) Crooked; lame; as, a game leg. \ (v. i.) Sport of any kind; jest, frolic. \ (v. i.) A contest, physical or mental, according to certain rules, for amusement, recreation, or for winning a stake, a game of chance; games of skill; field games, etc. \ (v. i.) The use or practice of such a game; a single match at play; a single contest, a game at cards. \ (v. i.) That which is gained, as the stake in a game; also, the number of points necessary to be scored in order to win a game, in short whist five points are game. \ (v. i.) In some games, a point credited on the score to the player whose cards counts up the highest. \ (v. i.) A scheme or art employed in the pursuit of an object or purpose; method of procedure; projected line of operations; plan; project. \ (v. i.) Animals pursued and taken by sportsmen; wild meats designed for, or served at, table. \ (a.) Having a resolute, unyielding spirit, like the gamecock; ready to fight to the last; plucky. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to such animals as are hunted for game, or to the act or practice of hunting. \ (n.) To rejoice; to be pleased; -- often used, in Old English, impersonally with dative. \ (n.) To play at any sport or diversion. \ (n.) To play for a stake or prize; to use cards, dice, billiards, or other instruments, with a view to win money or other thing waged upon the issue of the contest; to gamble.
ins garden (n.) A piece of ground appropriated to the cultivation of herbs, fruits, flowers, or vegetables. \ (n.) A rich, well-cultivated spot or tract of country. \ (v. i.) To lay out or cultivate a garden; to labor in a garden; to practice horticulture. \ (v. t.) To cultivate as a garden.
ins gas n. any substance that is not solid or liquid; any substance that burns to provide heat, light or power \ (n.) An aeriform fluid; -- a term used at first by chemists as synonymous with air, but since restricted to fluids supposed to be permanently elastic, as oxygen, hydrogen, etc., in distinction from vapors, as steam, which become liquid on a reduction of temperature. In present usage, since all of the supposed permanent gases have been liquified by cold and pressure, the term has resumed nearly its original signification, and is applied to any substance in the elastic or aeriform state. \ (n.) A complex mixture of gases, of which the most important constituents are marsh gas, olefiant gas, and hydrogen, artificially produced by the destructive distillation of gas coal, or sometimes of peat, wood, oil, resin, etc. It gives a brilliant light when burned, and is the common gas used for illuminating purposes. \ (n.) Laughing gas. \ (n.) Any irrespirable aeriform fluid. \ (v. t.) To singe, as in a gas flame, so as to remove loose fibers; as, to gas thread. \ (v. t.) To impregnate with gas, to gas lime with chlorine in the manufacture of bleaching powder. \ (v. t.) to expose to a poisonous or noxious gas \ (n.) Gasoline.
ins gentleman (n.) A man well born; one of good family; one above the condition of a yeoman. \ (n.) One of gentle or refined manners; a well-bred man. \ (n.) One who bears arms, but has no title. \ (n.) The servant of a man of rank. \ (n.) A man, irrespective of condition; -- used esp. in the plural (= citizens; people), in addressing men in popular assemblies, etc.
ins get v. to receive; to gain; to go and bring back; to become; to become the owner of \ (n.) Jet, the mineral. \ (n.) Fashion; manner; custom. \ (n.) Artifice; contrivance. \ (v. t.) To procure; to obtain; to gain possession of; to acquire; to earn; to obtain as a price or reward; to come by; to win, by almost any means; as, to get favor by kindness; to get wealth by industry and economy; to get land by purchase, etc. \ (v. t.) Hence, with have and had, to come into or be in possession of; to have. \ (v. t.) To beget; to procreate; to generate. \ (v. t.) To obtain mental possession of; to learn; to commit to memory; to memorize; as to get a lesson; also with out, to get out one's Greek lesson. \ (v. t.) To prevail on; to induce; to persuade. \ (v. t.) To procure to be, or to cause to be in any state or condition; -- with a following participle. \ (v. t.) To betake; to remove; -- in a reflexive use. \ (v. i.) To make acquisition; to profit; to receive accessions; to be increased. \ (v. i.) To arrive at, or bring one's self into, a state, condition, or position; to come to be; -- with a following adjective or past participle belonging to the subject of the verb, to get sober; to get awake; to get beaten; to get elected. \ (n.) Offspring; progeny, the get of a stallion.
ins girl n. a young female person \ (n.) A young person of either sex; a child. \ (n.) A female child, from birth to the age of puberty; a young maiden. \ (n.) A female servant; a maidservant. \ (n.) A roebuck two years old.
ins give v. to present to another to keep without receiving payment \ (n.) To bestow without receiving a return; to confer without compensation; to impart, as a possession; to grant, as authority or permission; to yield up or allow. \ (n.) To yield possesion of; to deliver over, as property, in exchange for something; to pay; as, we give the value of what we buy. \ (n.) To yield; to furnish; to produce; to emit, flint and steel give sparks. \ (n.) To communicate or announce, as advice, tidings, etc.; to pronounce; to render or utter, as an opinion, a judgment, a sentence, a shout, etc. \ (n.) To grant power or license to; to permit; to allow; to license; to commission. \ (n.) To exhibit as a product or result; to show, the number of men, divided by the number of ships, gives four hundred to each ship. \ (n.) To devote; to apply; used reflexively, to devote or apply one's self, the soldiers give themselves to plunder; also in this sense used very frequently in the past participle, the people are given to luxury and pleasure; the youth is given to study. \ (n.) To set forth as a known quantity or a known relation, or as a premise from which to reason; -- used principally in the passive form given. \ (n.) To allow or admit by way of supposition. \ (n.) To attribute; to assign; to adjudge. \ (n.) To excite or cause to exist, as a sensation, to give offense; to give pleasure or pain. \ (n.) To pledge, to give one's word. \ (n.) To cause; to make; -- with the infinitive, to give one to understand, to know, etc. \ (v. i.) To give a gift or gifts. \ (v. i.) To yield to force or pressure; to relax; to become less rigid, the earth gives under the feet. \ (v. i.) To become soft or moist. \ (v. i.) To move; to recede. \ (v. i.) To shed tears; to weep. \ (v. i.) To have a misgiving. \ (v. i.) To open; to lead. \ (v. t.) To afford a view of, his window gave the park.
ins glad (superl.) Pleased; joyous; happy; cheerful; gratified; -- opposed to sorry, sorrowful, or unhappy; -- said of persons, and often followed by of, at, that, or by the infinitive, and sometimes by with, introducing the cause or reason. \ (superl.) Wearing a gay or bright appearance; expressing or exciting joy; producing gladness; exhilarating. \ (v. t.) To make glad; to cheer; to gladden; to exhilarate. \ (v. i.) To be glad; to rejoice.
ins glass n. a hard, clear material that is easily broken, used most often for windows or for containers to hold liquids \ (v. t.) A hard, brittle, translucent, and commonly transparent substance, white or colored, having a conchoidal fracture, and made by fusing together sand or silica with lime, potash, soda, or lead oxide. It is used for window panes and mirrors, for articles of table and culinary use, for lenses, and various articles of ornament. \ (v. t.) Any substance having a peculiar glassy appearance, and a conchoidal fracture, and usually produced by fusion. \ (v. t.) Anything made of glass. \ (v. t.) A looking-glass; a mirror. \ (v. t.) A vessel filled with running sand for measuring time; an hourglass; and hence, the time in which such a vessel is exhausted of its sand. \ (v. t.) A drinking vessel; a tumbler; a goblet; hence, the contents of such a vessel; especially; spirituous liquors; as, he took a glass at dinner. \ (v. t.) An optical glass; a lens; a spyglass; -- in the plural, spectacles, a pair of glasses; he wears glasses. \ (v. t.) A weatherglass; a barometer. \ (v. t.) To reflect, as in a mirror; to mirror; -- used reflexively. \ (v. t.) To case in glass. \ (v. t.) To cover or furnish with glass; to glaze. \ (v. t.) To smooth or polish anything, as leater, by rubbing it with a glass burnisher.
ins glove (n.) A cover for the hand, or for the hand and wrist, with a separate sheath for each finger. The latter characteristic distinguishes the glove from the mitten. \ (n.) A boxing glove. \ (v. t.) To cover with, or as with, a glove.
ins go v. to move from one place to another; to leave \ (p. p.) Gone. \ (v. i.) To pass from one place to another; to be in motion; to be in a state not motionless or at rest; to proceed; to advance; to make progress; -- used, in various applications, of the movement of both animate and inanimate beings, by whatever means, and also of the movements of the mind; also figuratively applied. \ (v. i.) To move upon the feet, or step by step; to walk; also, to walk step by step, or leisurely. \ (v. i.) To be passed on fron one to another; to pass; to circulate; hence, with for, to have currency; to be taken, accepted, or regarded. \ (v. i.) To proceed or happen in a given manner; to fare; to move on or be carried on; to have course; to come to an issue or result; to succeed; to turn out. \ (v. i.) To proceed or tend toward a result, consequence, or product; to tend; to conduce; to be an ingredient; to avail; to apply; to contribute; -- often with the infinitive; as, this goes to show. \ (v. i.) To apply one's self; to set one's self; to undertake. \ (v. i.) To proceed by a mental operation; to pass in mind or by an act of the memory or imagination; -- generally with over or through. \ (v. i.) To be with young; to be pregnant; to gestate. \ (v. i.) To move from the person speaking, or from the point whence the action is contemplated; to pass away; to leave; to depart; -- in opposition to stay and come. \ (v. i.) To pass away; to depart forever; to be lost or ruined; to perish; to decline; to decease; to die. \ (v. i.) To reach; to extend; to lead, a line goes across the street; his land goes to the river; this road goes to New York. \ (v. i.) To have recourse; to resort, to go to law. \ (v. t.) To take, as a share in an enterprise; to undertake or become responsible for; to bear a part in. \ (v. t.) To bet or wager, I'll go you a shilling. \ (n.) Act; working; operation. \ (n.) A circumstance or occurrence; an incident. \ (n.) The fashion or mode, quite the go. \ (n.) Noisy merriment, a high go. \ (n.) A glass of spirits. \ (n.) Power of going or doing; energy; vitality; perseverance; push, there is no go in him. \ (n.) That condition in the course of the game when a player can not lay down a card which will not carry the aggregate count above thirty-one. \ (n.) Something that goes or is successful; a success, he made a go of it, an agreement.
ins goal n. that toward which an effort is directed; that which is aimed at; the end of a trip or race \ (n.) The mark set to bound a race, and to or around which the constestants run, or from which they start to return to it again; the place at which a race or a journey is to end. \ (n.) The final purpose or aim; the end to which a design tends, or which a person aims to reach or attain. \ (n.) A base, station, or bound used in various games; in football, a line between two posts across which the ball must pass in order to score; also, the act of kicking the ball over the line between the goal posts.
ins gold n. a highly valued yellow metal \ (n.) Alt. of Goolde \ (v. t.) A metallic element, constituting the most precious metal used as a common commercial medium of exchange. It has a characteristic yellow color, is one of the heaviest substances known (specific gravity 19.32), is soft, and very malleable and ductile. It is quite unalterable by heat, moisture, and most corrosive agents, and therefore well suited for its use in coin and jewelry. Symbol Au (Aurum). Atomic weight 196.7. \ (v. t.) Money; riches; wealth. \ (v. t.) A yellow color, like that of the metal; as, a flower tipped with gold. \ (v. t.) Figuratively, something precious or pure, hearts of gold.
ins golden (a.) Made of gold; consisting of gold. \ (a.) Having the color of gold; as, the golden grain. \ (a.) Very precious; highly valuable; excellent; eminently auspicious, golden opinions.
ins golf (n.) A game played with a small ball and a bat or club crooked at the lower end. He who drives the ball into each of a series of small holes in the ground and brings it into the last hole with the fewest strokes is the winner. \ (v. i.) To play at golf.
ins gone (p. p.) of Go \ p. p. of Go.
ins good ad. pleasing; helpful; kind; correct; not bad \ (superl.) Possessing desirable qualities; adapted to answer the end designed; promoting success, welfare, or happiness; serviceable; useful; fit; excellent; admirable; commendable; not bad, corrupt, evil, noxious, offensive, or troublesome, etc. \ (superl.) Possessing moral excellence or virtue; virtuous; pious; religious; -- said of persons or actions. \ (superl.) Kind; benevolent; humane; merciful; gracious; polite; propitious; friendly; well-disposed; -- often followed by to or toward, also formerly by unto. \ (superl.) Serviceable; suited; adapted; suitable; of use; to be relied upon; -- followed especially by for. \ (superl.) Clever; skillful; dexterous; ready; handy; -- followed especially by at. \ (superl.) Adequate; sufficient; competent; sound; not fallacious; valid; in a commercial sense, to be depended on for the discharge of obligations incurred; having pecuniary ability; of unimpaired credit. \ (superl.) Real; actual; serious; as in the phrases in good earnest; in good sooth. \ (superl.) Not small, insignificant, or of no account; considerable; esp., in the phrases a good deal, a good way, a good degree, a good share or part, etc. \ (superl.) Not lacking or deficient; full; complete. \ (superl.) Not blemished or impeached; fair; honorable; unsullied; as in the phrases a good name, a good report, good repute, etc. \ (n.) That which possesses desirable qualities, promotes success, is serviceable, etc.; -- opposed to evil. \ (n.) Advancement of interest or happiness; prosperity; advantage; benefit; -- opposed to harm, etc. \ (n.) Wares; commodities; chattels; -- formerly used in the singular in a collective sense. In law, a comprehensive name for almost all personal property as distinguished from land or real property. \ (adv.) Well, -- especially in the phrase as good, with a following as expressed or implied; equally well with as much advantage or as little harm as possible. \ (v. t.) To make good; to turn to good. \ (v. t.) To manure; to improve.
ins grandfather n. the father of a person's father or mother \ (n.) A father's or mother's father; an ancestor in the next degree above the father or mother in lineal ascent.
ins grandmother n. the mother of a person's father or mother \ (n.) The mother of one's father or mother.
ins grass n. a plant with long, narrow, green leaves \ (n.) Popularly: Herbage; the plants which constitute the food of cattle and other beasts; pasture. \ (n.) An endogenous plant having simple leaves, a stem generally jointed and tubular, the husks or glumes in pairs, and the seed single. \ (n.) The season of fresh grass; spring. \ (n.) Metaphorically used for what is transitory. \ (v. t.) To cover with grass or with turf. \ (v. t.) To expose, as flax, on the grass for bleaching, etc. \ (v. t.) To bring to the grass or ground; to land; as, to grass a fish. \ (v. i.) To produce grass.
ins gray ad. having the color like that made by mixing black and white \ (superl.) White mixed with black, as the color of pepper and salt, or of ashes, or of hair whitened by age; sometimes, a dark mixed color; as, the soft gray eye of a dove. \ (superl.) Gray-haired; gray-headed; of a gray color; hoary. \ (superl.) Old; mature, gray experience. Ames. \ (n.) A gray color; any mixture of white and black; also, a neutral or whitish tint. \ (n.) An animal or thing of gray color, as a horse, a badger, or a kind of salmon.
ins great ad. very large or more than usual in size or number; very good; important \ (superl.) Large in space; of much size; big; immense; enormous; expanded; -- opposed to small and little; as, a great house, ship, farm, plain, distance, length. \ (superl.) Large in number; numerous, a great company, multitude, series, etc. \ (superl.) Long continued; lengthened in duration; prolonged in time, a great while; a great interval. \ (superl.) Superior; admirable; commanding; -- applied to thoughts, actions, and feelings. \ (superl.) Endowed with extraordinary powers; uncommonly gifted; able to accomplish vast results; strong; powerful; mighty; noble, a great hero, scholar, genius, philosopher, etc. \ (superl.) Holding a chief position; elevated: lofty: eminent; distingushed; foremost; principal, great men; the great seal; the great marshal, etc. \ (superl.) Entitled to earnest consideration; weighty; important, a great argument, truth, or principle. \ (superl.) Pregnant; big (with young). \ (superl.) More than ordinary in degree; very considerable in degree, to use great caution; to be in great pain. \ (superl.) Older, younger, or more remote, by single generation; -- often used before grand to indicate one degree more remote in the direct line of descent, great-grandfather (a grandfather's or a grandmother's father), great-grandson, etc. \ (n.) The whole; the gross, a contract to build a ship by the great.
ins green ad. having the color like that made by mixing yellow and blue; having the color like that of growing leaves and grass \ (superl.) Having the color of grass when fresh and growing; resembling that color of the solar spectrum which is between the yellow and the blue; verdant; emerald. \ (superl.) Having a sickly color; wan. \ (superl.) Full of life aud vigor; fresh and vigorous; new; recent; as, a green manhood; a green wound. \ (superl.) Not ripe; immature; not fully grown or ripened, green fruit, corn, vegetables, etc. \ (superl.) Not roasted; half raw. \ (superl.) Immature in age or experience; young; raw; not trained; awkward, green in years or judgment. \ (superl.) Not seasoned; not dry; containing its natural juices, green wood, timber, etc. \ (n.) The color of growing plants; the color of the solar spectrum intermediate between the yellow and the blue. \ (n.) A grassy plain or plat; a piece of ground covered with verdant herbage, the village green. \ (n.) Fresh leaves or branches of trees or other plants; wreaths; -- usually in the plural. \ (n.) pl. Leaves and stems of young plants, as spinach, beets, etc., which in their green state are boiled for food. \ (n.) Any substance or pigment of a green color. \ (v. t.) To make green. \ (v. i.) To become or grow green. \ be inexperienced or immature \ inexperienced / He is a little green and doesn't know the job very well.  / He is rather green and doesn't have enough experience to drive the large piece of machinery yet. 
ins ground n. land; the earth's surface; soil \ (imp. & p. p.) of Grind \ (n.) The surface of the earth; the outer crust of the globe, or some indefinite portion of it. \ (n.) A floor or pavement supposed to rest upon the earth. \ (n.) Any definite portion of the earth's surface; region; territory; country. Hence: A territory appropriated to, or resorted to, for a particular purpose; the field or place of action; as, a hunting or fishing ground; a play ground. \ (n.) Land; estate; possession; field; esp. (pl.), the gardens, lawns, fields, etc., belonging to a homestead, the grounds of the estate are well kept. \ (n.) The basis on which anything rests; foundation. Hence: The foundation of knowledge, belief, or conviction; a premise, reason, or datum; ultimate or first principle; cause of existence or occurrence; originating force or agency, the ground of my hope. \ (n.) That surface upon which the figures of a composition are set, and which relieves them by its plainness, being either of one tint or of tints but slightly contrasted with one another, crimson Bowers on a white ground. \ (n.) In sculpture, a flat surface upon which figures are raised in relief. \ (n.) In point lace, the net of small meshes upon which the embroidered pattern is applied, Brussels ground. See Brussels lace, under Brussels. \ (n.) A gummy composition spread over the surface of a metal to be etched, to prevent the acid from eating except where an opening is made by the needle. \ (n.) One of the pieces of wood, flush with the plastering, to which moldings, are attached; -- usually in the plural. \ (n.) A composition in which the bass, consisting of a few bars of independent notes, is continually repeated to a varying melody. \ (n.) The tune on which descants are raised; the plain song. \ (n.) A conducting connection with the earth, whereby the earth is made part of an electrical circuit. \ (n.) Sediment at the bottom of liquors or liquids; dregs; lees; feces, coffee grounds. \ (n.) The pit of a theater. \ (v. t.) To lay, set, or run, on the ground. \ (v. t.) To found; to fix or set, as on a foundation, or principle; to furnish a ground for; to fix firmly. \ (v. t.) To instruct in elements or first principles. \ (v. t.) To connect with the ground so as to make the earth a part of an electrical circuit. \ (v. t.) To cover with a ground, as a copper plate for etching (see Ground, n., 5); or as paper or other materials with a uniform tint as a preparation for ornament. \ (v. i.) To run aground; to strike the bottom and remain fixed, the ship grounded on the bar. \ imp. & p. p. of Grind.
ins group n. a number of people or things together; a gathering of people working for a common purpose \ (n.) A cluster, crowd, or throng; an assemblage, either of persons or things, collected without any regular form or arrangement; as, a group of men or of trees; a group of isles. \ (n.) An assemblage of objects in a certain order or relation, or having some resemblance or common characteristic, groups of strata. \ (n.) A variously limited assemblage of animals or plants, having some resemblance, or common characteristics in form or structure. The term has different uses, and may be made to include certain species of a genus, or a whole genus, or certain genera, or even several orders. \ (n.) A number of eighth, sixteenth, etc., notes joined at the stems; -- sometimes rather indefinitely applied to any ornament made up of a few short notes. \ (n.) To form a group of; to arrange or combine in a group or in groups, often with reference to mutual relation and the best effect; to form an assemblage of.
ins grow v. to develop or become bigger; to increase in size or amount \ (v. i.) To increase in size by a natural and organic process; to increase in bulk by the gradual assimilation of new matter into the living organism; -- said of animals and vegetables and their organs. \ (v. i.) To increase in any way; to become larger and stronger; to be augmented; to advance; to extend; to wax; to accrue. \ (v. i.) To spring up and come to matturity in a natural way; to be produced by vegetation; to thrive; to flourish; as, rice grows in warm countries. \ (v. i.) To pass from one state to another; to result as an effect from a cause; to become, to grow pale. \ (v. i.) To become attached of fixed; to adhere. \ (v. t.) To cause to grow; to cultivate; to produce, to grow a crop; to grow wheat, hops, or tobacco.
ins guest (n.) A visitor; a person received and entertained in one's house or at one's table; a visitor entertained without pay. \ (v. t.) To receive or entertain hospitably. \ (v. i.) To be, or act the part of, a guest. \ (n.) Any insect that lives in the nest of another without compulsion and usually not as a parasite. \ (n.) An inquiline.
ins guide v. to lead to; to show the way; n. one who shows the way \ (n.) The leather strap by which the shield of a knight was slung across the shoulder, or across the neck and shoulder. \ (v. t.) To lead or direct in a way; to conduct in a course or path; to pilot; as, to guide a traveler. \ (v. t.) To regulate and manage; to direct; to order; to superintend the training or education of; to instruct and influence intellectually or morally; to train. \ (v. t.) A person who leads or directs another in his way or course, as in a strange land; one who exhibits points of interest to strangers; a conductor; also, that which guides; a guidebook. \ (v. t.) One who, or that which, directs another in his conduct or course of lifo; a director; a regulator. \ (v. t.) Any contrivance, especially one having a directing edge, surface, or channel, for giving direction to the motion of anything, as water, an instrument, or part of a machine, or for directing the hand or eye, as of an operator \ (v. t.) A blade or channel for directing the flow of water to the wheel buckets. \ (v. t.) A grooved director for a probe or knife. \ (v. t.) A strip or device to direct the compositor's eye to the line of copy he is setting. \ (v. t.) A noncommissioned officer or soldier placed on the directiug flank of each subdivision of a column of troops, or at the end of a line, to mark the pivots, formations, marches, and alignments in tactics.
ins guitar (n.) A stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger, and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of catgut, -- played upon with the fingers.
ins gun n. a weapon that shoots bullets \ of Gin \ (n.) A weapon which throws or propels a missile to a distance; any firearm or instrument for throwing projectiles by the explosion of gunpowder, consisting of a tube or barrel closed at one end, in which the projectile is placed, with an explosive charge behind, which is ignited by various means. Muskets, rifles, carbines, and fowling pieces are smaller guns, for hand use, and are called small arms. Larger guns are called cannon, ordnance, fieldpieces, carronades, howitzers, etc. See these terms in the Vocabulary. \ (n.) A piece of heavy ordnance; in a restricted sense, a cannon. \ (n.) Violent blasts of wind. \ (v. i.) To practice fowling or hunting small game; -- chiefly in participial form; as, to go gunning.
ins hair n. the fine material that grows from the skin, especially from the head \ (n.) The collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal, and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body. \ (n.) One the above-mentioned filaments, consisting, in invertebrate animals, of a long, tubular part which is free and flexible, and a bulbous root imbedded in the skin. \ (n.) Hair (human or animal) used for various purposes; as, hair for stuffing cushions. \ (n.) A slender outgrowth from the chitinous cuticle of insects, spiders, crustaceans, and other invertebrates. Such hairs are totally unlike those of vertebrates in structure, composition, and mode of growth. \ (n.) An outgrowth of the epidermis, consisting of one or of several cells, whether pointed, hooked, knobbed, or stellated. Internal hairs occur in the flower stalk of the yellow frog lily (Nuphar). \ (n.) A spring device used in a hair-trigger firearm. \ (n.) A haircloth. \ (n.) Any very small distance, or degree; a hairbreadth.
ins half n. one of two equal parts of something \ (a.) Consisting of a moiety, or half; as, a half bushel; a half hour; a half dollar; a half view. \ (a.) Consisting of some indefinite portion resembling a half; approximately a half, whether more or less; partial; imperfect, a half dream; half knowledge. \ (adv.) In an equal part or degree; in some pa/ appro/mating a half; partially; imperfectly, half-colored, half done, half-hearted, half persuaded, half conscious. \ (a.) Part; side; behalf. \ (a.) One of two equal parts into which anything may be divided, or considered as divided; -- sometimes followed by of, a half of an apple. \ (v. t.) To halve. [Obs.] See Halve.
ins hand (n.) That part of the fore limb below the forearm or wrist in man and monkeys, and the corresponding part in many other animals; manus; paw. See Manus. \ (n.) That which resembles, or to some extent performs the office of, a human hand \ (n.) A limb of certain animals, as the foot of a hawk, or any one of the four extremities of a monkey. \ (n.) An index or pointer on a dial; as, the hour or minute hand of a clock. \ (n.) A measure equal to a hand's breadth, -- four inches; a palm. Chiefly used in measuring the height of horses. \ (n.) Side; part; direction, either right or left. \ (n.) Power of performance; means of execution; ability; skill; dexterity. \ (n.) Actual performance; deed; act; workmanship; agency; hence, manner of performance. \ (n.) An agent; a servant, or laborer; a workman, trained or competent for special service or duty; a performer more or less skillful, a deck hand; a farm hand; an old hand at speaking. \ (n.) Handwriting; style of penmanship, a good, bad or running hand. Hence, a signature. \ (n.) Personal possession; ownership, control; management; -- usually in the plural. \ (n.) Agency in transmission from one person to another, to buy at first hand, that is, from the producer, or when new; at second hand, when no longer in the producer's hand, or when not new. \ (n.) Rate; price. \ (n.) That which is, or may be, held in a hand at once \ (n.) The quota of cards received from the dealer. \ (n.) A bundle of tobacco leaves tied together. \ (n.) The small part of a gunstock near the lock, which is grasped by the hand in taking aim. \ (v. t.) To give, pass, or transmit with the hand, he handed them the letter. \ (v. t.) To lead, guide, or assist with the hand; to conduct, to hand a lady into a carriage. \ (v. t.) To manage, I hand my oar. \ (v. t.) To seize; to lay hands on. \ (v. t.) To pledge by the hand; to handfast. \ (v. t.) To furl; -- said of a sail. \ (v. i.) To cooperate. \ (n.) A gambling game played by American Indians, consisting of guessing the whereabouts of bits of ivory or the like, which are passed rapidly from hand to hand.
ins happen v. to become a fact or event; to take place \ (v. i.) To come by chance; to come without previous expectation; to fall out. \ (v. i.) To take place; to occur.
ins happiness (n.) Good luck; good fortune; prosperity. \ (n.) An agreeable feeling or condition of the soul arising from good fortune or propitious happening of any kind; the possession of those circumstances or that state of being which is attended enjoyment; the state of being happy; contentment; joyful satisfaction; felicity; blessedness. \ (n.) Fortuitous elegance; unstudied grace; -- used especially of language.
ins happy ad. pleased; satisfied; feeling good; not sad \ (superl.) Favored by hap, luck, or fortune; lucky; fortunate; successful; prosperous; satisfying desire; as, a happy expedient; a happy effort; a happy venture; a happy omen. \ (superl.) Experiencing the effect of favorable fortune; having the feeling arising from the consciousness of well-being or of enjoyment; enjoying good of any kind, as peace, tranquillity, comfort; contented; joyous, happy hours, happy thoughts. \ (superl.) Dexterous; ready; apt; felicitous.
ins hard ad. not easily cut or broken; solid; difficult to do or understand; needing much effort or force \ (superl.) Not easily penetrated, cut, or separated into parts; not yielding to pressure; firm; compact; -- applied to material bodies, and opposed to soft; as, hard wood; hard flesh; a hard apple. \ (superl.) Difficult, mentally or judicially; not easily apprehended, decided, or resolved; as a hard problem. \ (superl.) Difficult to accomplish; full of obstacles; laborious; fatiguing; arduous, a hard task; a disease hard to cure. \ (superl.) Difficult to resist or control; powerful. \ (superl.) Difficult to bear or endure; not easy to put up with or consent to; hence, severe; rigorous; oppressive; distressing; unjust; grasping, a hard lot; hard times; hard fare; a hard winter; hard conditions or terms. \ (superl.) Difficult to please or influence; stern; unyielding; obdurate; unsympathetic; unfeeling; cruel, a hard master; a hard heart; hard words; a hard character. \ (superl.) Not easy or agreeable to the taste; stiff; rigid; ungraceful; repelling, a hard style. \ (superl.) Rough; acid; sour, as liquors, hard cider. \ (superl.) Abrupt or explosive in utterance; not aspirated, sibilated, or pronounced with a gradual change of the organs from one position to another; -- said of certain consonants, as c in came, and g in go, as distinguished from the same letters in center, general, etc. \ (superl.) Wanting softness or smoothness of utterance; harsh, a hard tone. \ (superl.) Rigid in the drawing or distribution of the figures; formal; lacking grace of composition. \ (superl.) Having disagreeable and abrupt contrasts in the coloring or light and shade. \ (adv.) With pressure; with urgency, diligently; earnestly. \ (adv.) With difficulty, the vehicle moves hard. \ (adv.) Uneasily; vexatiously; slowly. \ (adv.) So as to raise difficulties. \ (adv.) With tension or strain of the powers; violently; with force; tempestuously; vehemently; vigorously; energetically, to press, to blow, to rain hard, rapidly, to run hard. \ (adv.) Close or near. \ (v. t.) To harden; to make hard. \ (n.) A ford or passage across a river or swamp.
ins has 3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. \ of Have
ins hat n. a head cover \ (a.) Hot. \ sing. pres. of Hote to be called. Cf. \ (n.) A covering for the head; esp., one with a crown and brim, made of various materials, and worn by men or women for protecting the head from the sun or weather, or for ornament. \ A cap or hat worn by officers or enlisted men when full-dress uniform, or dress uniform, is not worn.
ins have v. to possess; to own; to hold \ (v. t.) To hold in possession or control; as, he has a farm. \ (v. t.) To possess, as something which appertains to, is connected with, or affects, one. \ (v. t.) To accept possession of; to take or accept. \ (v. t.) To get possession of; to obtain; to get. \ (v. t.) To cause or procure to be; to effect; to exact; to desire; to require. \ (v. t.) To bear, as young, she has just had a child. \ (v. t.) To hold, regard, or esteem. \ (v. t.) To cause or force to go; to take. \ (v. t.) To take or hold (one's self); to proceed promptly; -- used reflexively, often with ellipsis of the pronoun, to have after one; to have at one or at a thing, i. e., to aim at one or at a thing; to attack; to have with a companion. \ (v. t.) To be under necessity or obligation; to be compelled; followed by an infinitive. \ (v. t.) To understand. \ (v. t.) To put in an awkward position; to have the advantage of, that is where he had him. \ (Indic. present) of Have \ of Have
ins he pro. the boy or man who is being spoken about \ (obj.) The man or male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject already indicated. \ (obj.) Any one; the man or person; -- used indefinitely, and usually followed by a relative pronoun. \ (obj.) Man; a male; any male person; -- in this sense used substantively.
ins head v. to lead; to command; n. leader; chief; the top part of something; the highest position \ (n.) The anterior or superior part of an animal, containing the brain, or chief ganglia of the nervous system, the mouth, and in the higher animals, the chief sensory organs; poll; cephalon. \ (n.) The uppermost, foremost, or most important part of an inanimate object; such a part as may be considered to resemble the head of an animal; often, also, the larger, thicker, or heavier part or extremity, in distinction from the smaller or thinner part, or from the point or edge; as, the head of a cane, a nail, a spear, an ax, a mast, a sail, a ship; that which covers and closes the top or the end of a hollow vessel, the head of a cask or a steam boiler. \ (n.) The place where the head should go, the head of a bed, of a grave, etc.; the head of a carriage, that is, the hood which covers the head. \ (n.) The most prominent or important member of any organized body; the chief; the leader, the head of a college, a school, a church, a state, and the like. \ (n.) The place or honor, or of command; the most important or foremost position; the front, the head of the table; the head of a column of soldiers. \ (n.) Each one among many; an individual; -- often used in a plural sense, a thousand head of cattle. \ (n.) The seat of the intellect; the brain; the understanding; the mental faculties, a good head, a good mind; it never entered his head, it did not occur to him; of his own head, of his own thought or will. \ (n.) The source, fountain, spring, or beginning, as of a stream or river, the head of the Nile; hence, the altitude of the source, or the height of the surface, as of water, above a given place, as above an orifice at which it issues, and the pressure resulting from the height or from motion; sometimes also, the quantity in reserve, a mill or reservoir has a good head of water, or ten feet head, that part of a gulf or bay most remote from the outlet or the sea. \ (n.) A headland; a promontory, Gay Head. \ (n.) A separate part, or topic, of a discourse; a theme to be expanded; a subdivision, the heads of a sermon. \ (n.) Culminating point or crisis, strength; force; height. \ (n.) Power; armed force. \ (n.) A headdress; a covering of the head, a laced head; a head of hair. \ (n.) An ear of wheat, barley, or of one of the other small cereals. \ (n.) A dense cluster of flowers, as in clover, daisies, thistles; a capitulum. \ (n.) A dense, compact mass of leaves, as in a cabbage or a lettuce plant. \ (n.) The antlers of a deer. \ (n.) A rounded mass of foam which rises on a pot of beer or other effervescing liquor. \ (n.) Tiles laid at the eaves of a house. \ (a.) Principal; leading; first, the head master of a school; the head man of a tribe; a head chorister; a head cook. \ (v. t.) To be at the head of; to put one's self at the head of; to lead; to direct; to act as leader to, to head an army, an expedition, or a riot. \ (v. t.) To behead; to decapitate.
ins healthy (superl.) Being in a state of health; enjoying health; hale; sound; free from disease; as, a healthy chid; a healthy plant. \ (superl.) Evincing health, a healthy pulse; a healthy complexion. \ (superl.) Conducive to health; wholesome; salubrious; salutary, a healthy exercise; a healthy climate.
ins hear v. to receive sound through the ears; to receive news about \ (v. t.) To perceive by the ear; to apprehend or take cognizance of by the ear; as, to hear sounds; to hear a voice; to hear one call. \ (v. t.) To give audience or attention to; to listen to; to heed; to accept the doctrines or advice of; to obey; to examine; to try in a judicial court, to hear a recitation; to hear a class; the case will be heard to-morrow. \ (v. t.) To attend, or be present at, as hearer or worshiper, to hear a concert; to hear Mass. \ (v. t.) To give attention to as a teacher or judge. \ (v. t.) To accede to the demand or wishes of; to listen to and answer favorably; to favor. \ (v. i.) To have the sense or faculty of perceiving sound. \ (v. i.) To use the power of perceiving sound; to perceive or apprehend by the ear; to attend; to listen. \ (v. i.) To be informed by oral communication; to be told; to receive information by report or by letter.
ins heart pumps blood through the body \ (n.) A hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood. \ (n.) The seat of the affections or sensibilities, collectively or separately, as love, hate, joy, grief, courage, and the like; rarely, the seat of the understanding or will; -- usually in a good sense, when no epithet is expressed; the better or lovelier part of our nature; the spring of all our actions and purposes; the seat of moral life and character; the moral affections and character itself; the individual disposition and character; as, a good, tender, loving, bad, hard, or selfish heart. \ (n.) The nearest the middle or center; the part most hidden and within; the inmost or most essential part of any body or system; the source of life and motion in any organization; the chief or vital portion; the center of activity, or of energetic or efficient action, the heart of a country, of a tree, etc. \ (n.) Courage; courageous purpose; spirit. \ (n.) Vigorous and efficient activity; power of fertile production; condition of the soil, whether good or bad. \ (n.) That which resembles a heart in shape; especially, a roundish or oval figure or object having an obtuse point at one end, and at the other a corresponding indentation, -- used as a symbol or representative of the heart. \ (n.) One of a series of playing cards, distinguished by the figure or figures of a heart, hearts are trumps. \ (n.) Vital part; secret meaning; real intention. \ (n.) A term of affectionate or kindly and familiar address. \ (v. t.) To give heart to; to hearten; to encourage; to inspirit. \ (v. i.) To form a compact center or heart, a hearting cabbage.
ins heavy ad. having much weight; not easy to lift; of great amount or force \ (a.) Having the heaves. \ (superl.) Heaved or lifted with labor; not light; weighty; ponderous; as, a heavy stone; hence, sometimes, large in extent, quantity, or effects, a heavy fall of rain or snow; a heavy failure; heavy business transactions, etc.; often implying strength, a heavy barrier; also, difficult to move, a heavy draught. \ (superl.) Not easy to bear; burdensome; oppressive; hard to endure or accomplish, grievous, afflictive, heavy yokes, expenses, undertakings, trials, news, etc. \ (superl.) Laden with that which is weighty; encumbered; burdened; bowed down, either with an actual burden, or with care, grief, pain, disappointment. \ (superl.) Slow; sluggish; inactive; or lifeless, dull, inanimate, stupid, a heavy gait, looks, manners, style, and the like; a heavy writer or book. \ (superl.) Strong; violent; forcible, a heavy sea, storm, cannonade, and the like. \ (superl.) Loud; deep; -- said of sound, heavy thunder. \ (superl.) Dark with clouds, or ready to rain; gloomy; -- said of the sky. \ (superl.) Impeding motion; cloggy; clayey; -- said of earth, a heavy road, soil, and the like. \ (superl.) Not raised or made light, heavy bread. \ (superl.) Not agreeable to, or suitable for, the stomach; not easily digested; -- said of food. \ (superl.) Having much body or strength; -- said of wines, or other liquors. \ (superl.) With child; pregnant. \ (adv.) Heavily; -- sometimes used in composition, heavy-laden. \ (v. t.) To make heavy.
ins hello (interj. & n.) See Halloo.
ins help v. to give support; to assist; to make easier; n. support; aid \ (v. t.) To furnish with strength or means for the successful performance of any action or the attainment of any object; to aid; as, to help a man in his work; to help one to remember; -- the following infinitive is commonly used without to, "Help me scale yon balcony." \ (v. t.) To furnish with the means of deliverance from trouble, to help one in distress; to help one out of prison. \ (v. t.) To furnish with relief, as in pain or disease; to be of avail against; -- sometimes with of before a word designating the pain or disease, and sometimes having such a word for the direct object. \ (v. t.) To change for the better; to remedy. \ (v. t.) To prevent; to hinder, the evil approaches, and who can help it? \ (v. t.) To forbear; to avoid. \ (v. t.) To wait upon, as the guests at table, by carving and passing food. \ (v. i.) To lend aid or assistance; to contribute strength or means; to avail or be of use; to assist. \ (v. t.) Strength or means furnished toward promoting an object, or deliverance from difficulty or distress; aid; ^; also, the person or thing furnishing the aid, he gave me a help of fifty dollars. \ (v. t.) Remedy; relief, there is no help for it. \ (v. t.) A helper; one hired to help another, thew hole force of hired helpers in any business. \ (v. t.) Specifically, a domestic servant, man or woman.
ins her (pron. & a.) The form of the objective and the possessive case of the personal pronoun she; as, I saw her with her purse out. \ (pron. pl.) Alt. of Here
ins here ad. in, to or at this place \ (pron. pl.) Of them; their. \ (n.) Hair. \ (pron.) See Her, their. \ (pron.) Her; hers. See Her. \ (adv.) In this place; in the place where the speaker is; -- opposed to there. \ (adv.) In the present life or state. \ (adv.) To or into this place; hither. [Colloq.] See Thither. \ (adv.) At this point of time, or of an argument; now.
ins hers (pron.) See the Note under Her, pron.
ins high ad. tall; far up; far above the ground; important; above others \ (v. i.) To hie. \ (superl.) Elevated above any starting point of measurement, as a line, or surface; having altitude; lifted up; raised or extended in the direction of the zenith; lofty; tall; as, a high mountain, tower, tree; the sun is high. \ (superl.) Regarded as raised up or elevated; distinguished; remarkable; conspicuous; superior; -- used indefinitely or relatively, and often in figurative senses, which are understood from the connection \ (superl.) Elevated in character or quality, whether moral or intellectual; preeminent; honorable, high aims, or motives. \ (superl.) Exalted in social standing or general estimation, or in rank, reputation, office, and the like; dignified, she was welcomed in the highest circles. \ (superl.) Of noble birth; illustrious, of high family. \ (superl.) Of great strength, force, importance; strong; mighty; powerful; violent; sometimes, triumphant; victorious; majestic, etc., a high wind; high passions. \ (superl.) Very abstract; difficult to comprehend or surmount; grand; noble. \ (superl.) Costly; dear in price; extravagant, to hold goods at a high price. \ (superl.) Arrogant; boastful; proud; ostentatious; -- used in a bad sense. \ (superl.) Possessing a characteristic quality in a supreme or superior degree, high (i. e., intense) heat; high (i. e., full or quite) noon; high (i. e., rich or spicy) seasoning; high (i. e., complete) pleasure; high (i. e., deep or vivid) color; high (i. e., extensive, thorough) scholarship, etc. \ (superl.) Strong-scented; slightly tainted, epicures do not cook game before it is high. \ (superl.) Acute or sharp; -- opposed to grave or low, a high note. \ (superl.) Made with a high position of some part of the tongue in relation to the palate, as \ (adv.) In a high manner; in a high place; to a great altitude; to a great degree; largely; in a superior manner; eminently; powerfully. \ (n.) An elevated place; a superior region; a height; the sky; heaven. \ (n.) People of rank or high station, high and low. \ (n.) The highest card dealt or drawn. \ (v. i.) To rise, the sun higheth. / (/ve), / (f/d). See Guide to Pronunciation, // 10, 11.
ins hill n. a small mountain \ (n.) A natural elevation of land, or a mass of earth rising above the common level of the surrounding land; an eminence less than a mountain. \ (n.) The earth raised about the roots of a plant or cluster of plants. [U. S.] See Hill, v. t. \ (v. t.) A single cluster or group of plants growing close together, and having the earth heaped up about them; as, a hill of corn or potatoes. \ (v. t.) To surround with earth; to heap or draw earth around or upon, to hill corn.
ins him (pron.) Them. See Hem. \ (pron.) The objective case of he. See He.
ins his (pron.) Belonging or pertaining to him; -- used as a pronominal adjective or adjective pronoun; as, tell John his papers are ready; formerly used also for its, but this use is now obsolete. \ (pron.) The possessive of he, the book is his.
ins history n. the written record or description of past events; the study of the past \ (n.) A learning or knowing by inquiry; the knowledge of facts and events, so obtained; hence, a formal statement of such information; a narrative; a description; a written record; as, the history of a patient's case; the history of a legislative bill. \ (n.) A systematic, written account of events, particularly of those affecting a nation, institution, science, or art, and usually connected with a philosophical explanation of their causes; a true story, as distinguished from a romance; -- distinguished also from annals, which relate simply the facts and events of each year, in strict chronological order; from biography, which is the record of an individual's life; and from memoir, which is history composed from personal experience, observation, and memory. \ (v. t.) To narrate or record.
ins hit v. to strike; to touch with force \ (pron.) It. \ 3d pers. sing. pres. of Hide, contracted from hideth. \ (imp. & p. p.) of Hit \ (v. t.) To reach with a stroke or blow; to strike or touch, usually with force; especially, to reach or touch (an object aimed at). \ (v. t.) To reach or attain exactly; to meet according to the occasion; to perform successfully; to attain to; to accord with; to be conformable to; to suit. \ (v. t.) To guess; to light upon or discover. \ (v. t.) To take up, or replace by a piece belonging to the opposing player; -- said of a single unprotected piece on a point. \ (v. i.) To meet or come in contact; to strike; to clash; -- followed by against or on. \ (v. i.) To meet or reach what was aimed at or desired; to succeed, -- often with implied chance, or luck. \ (n.) A striking against; the collision of one body against another; the stroke that touches anything. \ (n.) A stroke of success in an enterprise, as by a fortunate chance; as, he made a hit. \ (n.) A peculiarly apt expression or turn of thought; a phrase which hits the mark, a happy hit. \ (n.) A game won at backgammon after the adversary has removed some of his men. It counts less than a gammon. \ (n.) A striking of the ball, a safe hit; a foul hit; -- sometimes used specifically for a base hit.
ins hobby (n.) A small, strong-winged European falcon (Falco subbuteo), formerly trained for hawking. \ (n.) Alt. of Hobbyhorse
ins hold v. to carry or support, usually in the hands or arms; to keep in one position; to keep as a prisoner; to contain; to possess; to occupy; to organize and be involved in ("The two sides hold talks this week.") \ (n.) The whole interior portion of a vessel below the lower deck, in which the cargo is stowed. \ (v. t.) To cause to remain in a given situation, position, or relation, within certain limits, or the like; to prevent from falling or escaping; to sustain; to restrain; to keep in the grasp; to retain. \ (v. t.) To retain in one's keeping; to maintain possession of, or authority over; not to give up or relinquish; to keep; to defend. \ (v. t.) To have; to be in possession of; to derive title to; as, to hold office. \ (v. t.) To impose restraint upon; to limit in motion or action; to bind legally or morally; to confine; to restrain. \ (v. t.) To maintain in being or action; to carry on; to prosecute, as a course of conduct or an argument; to continue; to sustain. \ (v. t.) To prosecute, have, take, or join in, as something which is the result of united action; as to, hold a meeting, a festival, a session, etc.; hence, to direct and bring about officially; to conduct or preside at, the general held a council of war; a judge holds a court; a clergyman holds a service. \ (v. t.) To receive and retain; to contain as a vessel, this pail holds milk, to be able to receive and retain; to have capacity or containing power for. \ (v. t.) To accept, as an opinion; to be the adherent of, openly or privately; to persist in, as a purpose; to maintain; to sustain. \ (v. t.) To consider; to regard; to esteem; to account; to think; to judge. \ (v. t.) To bear, carry, or manage; as he holds himself erect; he holds his head high. \ (n. i.) In general, to keep one's self in a given position or condition; to remain fixed. Hence: \ (n. i.) Not to more; to halt; to stop;-mostly in the imperative. \ (n. i.) Not to give way; not to part or become separated; to remain unbroken or unsubdued. \ (n. i.) Not to fail or be found wanting; to last; to endure a test or trial; to abide; to persist. \ (n. i.) Not to fall away, desert, or prove recreant; to remain attached; to cleave;-often with with, to, or for. \ (n. i.) To restrain one's self; to refrain. \ (n. i.) To derive right or title; -- generally with of. \ (n.) The act of holding, as in or with the hands or arms; the manner of holding, whether firm or loose; seizure; grasp; clasp; gripe; possession; -- often used with the verbs take and lay. \ (n.) The authority or ground to take or keep; claim. \ (n.) Binding power and influence. \ (n.) Something that may be grasped; means of support. \ (n.) A place of confinement; a prison; confinement; custody; guard. \ (n.) A place of security; a fortified place; a fort; a castle; -- often called a stronghold. \ (n.) A character [thus /] placed over or under a note or rest, and indicating that it is to be prolonged; -- called also pause, and corona.
ins hole n. an opening; a torn or broken place in something \ (a.) Whole. \ (n.) A hollow place or cavity; an excavation; a pit; an opening in or through a solid body, a fabric, etc.; a perforation; a rent; a fissure. \ (n.) An excavation in the ground, made by an animal to live in, or a natural cavity inhabited by an animal; hence, a low, narrow, or dark lodging or place; a mean habitation. \ (n.) To cut, dig, or bore a hole or holes in; as, to hole a post for the insertion of rails or bars. \ (n.) To drive into a hole, as an animal, or a billiard ball. \ (v. i.) To go or get into a hole. \ (n.) A small cavity used in some games, usually one into which a marble or ball is to be played or driven, a score made by playing a marble or ball into such a hole, as in golf. \ (n.) At Eton College, England, that part of the floor of the court between the step and the pepperbox.
ins holiday n. a day when one does not work; a day on which no work is done to honor or remember a person or event \ (n.) A consecrated day; religious anniversary; a day set apart in honor of some person, or in commemoration of some event. See Holyday. \ (n.) A day of exemption from labor; a day of amusement and gayety; a festival day. \ (n.) A day fixed by law for suspension of business; a legal holiday. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a festival; cheerful; joyous; gay. \ (a.) Occurring rarely; adapted for a special occasion.
ins home n. the building where a person lives, especially with family; the place where one was born or comes from; the area or country where one lives \ (n.) See Homelyn. \ (n.) One's own dwelling place; the house in which one lives; esp., the house in which one lives with his family; the habitual abode of one's family; also, one's birthplace. \ (n.) One's native land; the place or country in which one dwells; the place where one's ancestors dwell or dwelt. \ (n.) The abiding place of the affections, especially of the domestic affections. \ (n.) The locality where a thing is usually found, or was first found, or where it is naturally abundant; habitat; seat; as, the home of the pine. \ (n.) A place of refuge and rest; an asylum, a home for outcasts; a home for the blind; hence, the grave; the final rest, the native and eternal dwelling place of the soul. \ (n.) The home base; he started for home. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to one's dwelling or country; domestic; not foreign; as home manufactures; home comforts. \ (a.) Close; personal; pointed, a home thrust. \ (adv.) To one's home or country; as in the phrases, go home, come home, carry home. \ (adv.) Close; closely. \ (adv.) To the place where it belongs; to the end of a course; to the full length, to drive a nail home; to ram a cartridge home. \ (n.) In various games, the ultimate point aimed at in a progress; goal \ (n.) The plate at which the batter stands. \ (n.) The place of a player in front of an opponent's goal, the player.
ins honest ad. truthful; able to be trusted \ (a.) Decent; honorable; suitable; becoming. \ (a.) Characterized by integrity or fairness and straight/forwardness in conduct, thought, speech, etc.; upright; just; equitable; trustworthy; truthful; sincere; free from fraud, guile, or duplicity; not false; -- said of persons and acts, and of things to which a moral quality is imputed; as, an honest judge or merchant; an honest statement; an honest bargain; an honest business; an honest book; an honest confession. \ (a.) Open; frank, an honest countenance. \ (a.) Chaste; faithful; virtuous. \ (a.) To adorn; to grace; to honor; to make becoming, appropriate, or honorable.
ins honey (n.) A sweet viscid fluid, esp. that collected by bees from flowers of plants, and deposited in the cells of the honeycomb. \ (n.) That which is sweet or pleasant, like honey. \ (n.) Sweet one; -- a term of endearment. \ (v. i.) To be gentle, agreeable, or coaxing; to talk fondly; to use endearments; also, to be or become obsequiously courteous or complimentary; to fawn. \ (v. t.) To make agreeable; to cover or sweeten with, or as with, honey.
ins hope v. to expect; to believe there is a good chance that something will happen as wanted; to want something to happen \ (n.) A sloping plain between mountain ridges. \ (n.) A small bay; an inlet; a haven. \ (n.) A desire of some good, accompanied with an expectation of obtaining it, or a belief that it is obtainable; an expectation of something which is thought to be desirable; confidence; pleasing expectancy. \ (n.) One who, or that which, gives hope, furnishes ground of expectation, or promises desired good. \ (n.) That which is hoped for; an object of hope. \ (v. i.) To entertain or indulge hope; to cherish a desire of good, or of something welcome, with expectation of obtaining it or belief that it is obtainable; to expect; -- usually followed by for. \ (v. i.) To place confidence; to trust with confident expectation of good; -- usually followed by in. \ (v. t.) To desire with expectation or with belief in the possibility or prospect of obtaining; to look forward to as a thing desirable, with the expectation of obtaining it; to cherish hopes of. \ (v. t.) To expect; to fear.
ins horse n. a large animal often used for racing, riding or farm work \ (n.) A hoofed quadruped of the genus Equus; especially, the domestic horse (E. caballus), which was domesticated in Egypt and Asia at a very early period. It has six broad molars, on each side of each jaw, with six incisors, and two canine teeth, both above and below. The mares usually have the canine teeth rudimentary or wanting. The horse differs from the true asses, in having a long, flowing mane, and the tail bushy to the base. Unlike the asses it has callosities, or chestnuts, on all its legs. The horse excels in strength, speed, docility, courage, and nobleness of character, and is used for drawing, carrying, bearing a rider, and like purposes. \ (n.) The male of the genus horse, in distinction from the female or male; usually, a castrated male. \ (n.) Mounted soldiery; cavalry; -- used without the plural termination; as, a regiment of horse; -- distinguished from foot. \ (n.) A frame with legs, used to support something, a clotheshorse, a sawhorse, etc. \ (n.) A frame of timber, shaped like a horse, on which soldiers were made to ride for punishment. \ (n.) Anything, actual or figurative, on which one rides as on a horse; a hobby. \ (n.) A mass of earthy matter, or rock of the same character as the wall rock, occurring in the course of a vein, as of coal or ore; hence, to take horse -- said of a vein -- is to divide into branches for a distance. \ (n.) See Footrope, a. \ (a.) A breastband for a leadsman. \ (a.) An iron bar for a sheet traveler to slide upon. \ (a.) A jackstay. \ (v. t.) To provide with a horse, or with horses; to mount on, or as on, a horse. \ (v. t.) To sit astride of; to bestride. \ (v. t.) To cover, as a mare; -- said of the male. \ (v. t.) To take or carry on the back, the keeper, horsing a deer. \ (v. t.) To place on the back of another, or on a wooden horse, etc., to be flogged; to subject to such punishment. \ (v. i.) To get on horseback. \ (n.) A translation or other illegitimate aid in study or examination; -- called also trot, pony, Dobbin. \ (n.) Horseplay; tomfoolery.
ins hospital n. a place where sick or injured people are given medical care \ (n.) A place for shelter or entertainment; an inn. \ (n.) A building in which the sick, injured, or infirm are received and treated; a public or private institution founded for reception and cure, or for the refuge, of persons diseased in body or mind, or disabled, infirm, or dependent, and in which they are treated either at their own expense, or more often by charity in whole or in part; a tent, building, or other place where the sick or wounded of an army cared for. \ (a.) Hospitable.
ins hot ad. having or feeling great heat or a high temperature \ of Hight \ imp. & p. p. of Hote. \ (superl.) Having much sensible heat; exciting the feeling of warmth in a great degree; very warm; -- opposed to cold, and exceeding warm in degree; as, a hot stove; hot water or air. \ (superl.) Characterized by heat, ardor, or animation; easily excited; firely; vehement; passionate; violent; eager. \ (superl.) Lustful; lewd; lecherous. \ (superl.) Acrid; biting; pungent, hot as mustard. \ of Hote \ of Hote
ins hotel n. a building with rooms, and often food, for travellers \ (n.) A house for entertaining strangers or travelers; an inn or public house, of the better class. \ (n.) In France, the mansion or town residence of a person of rank or wealth.
ins hour n. a measure of time; sixty minutes \ (n.) The twenty-fourth part of a day; sixty minutes. \ (n.) The time of the day, as expressed in hours and minutes, and indicated by a timepiece; as, what is the hour? At what hour shall we meet? \ (n.) Fixed or appointed time; conjuncture; a particular time or occasion, the hour of greatest peril; the man for the hour. \ (n.) Certain prayers to be repeated at stated times of the day, as matins and vespers. \ (n.) A measure of distance traveled.
ins house n. a building in which people live; a country's parliament or lawmaking group ("House of Representatives") \ (n.) A structure intended or used as a habitation or shelter for animals of any kind; but especially, a building or edifice for the habitation of man; a dwelling place, a mansion. \ (n.) Household affairs; domestic concerns; particularly in the phrase to keep house. See below. \ (n.) Those who dwell in the same house; a household. \ (n.) A family of ancestors, descendants, and kindred; a race of persons from the same stock; a tribe; especially, a noble family or an illustrious race; as, the house of Austria; the house of Hanover; the house of Israel. \ (n.) One of the estates of a kingdom or other government assembled in parliament or legislature; a body of men united in a legislative capacity, the House of Lords; the House of Commons; the House of Representatives; also, a quorum of such a body. See Congress, and Parliament. \ (n.) A firm, or commercial establishment. \ (n.) A public house; an inn; a hotel. \ (n.) A twelfth part of the heavens, as divided by six circles intersecting at the north and south points of the horizon, used by astrologers in noting the positions of the heavenly bodies, and casting horoscopes or nativities. The houses were regarded as fixed in respect to the horizon, and numbered from the one at the eastern horizon, called the ascendant, first house, or house of life, downward, or in the direction of the earth's revolution, the stars and planets passing through them in the reverse order every twenty-four hours. \ (n.) A square on a chessboard, regarded as the proper place of a piece. \ (n.) An audience; an assembly of hearers, as at a lecture, a theater, etc., a thin or a full house. \ (n.) The body, as the habitation of the soul. \ (n.) The grave. \ (v. t.) To take or put into a house; to shelter under a roof; to cover from the inclemencies of the weather; to protect by covering, to house one's family in a comfortable home; to house farming utensils; to house cattle. \ (v. t.) To drive to a shelter. \ (v. t.) To admit to residence; to harbor. \ (v. t.) To deposit and cover, as in the grave. \ (v. t.) To stow in a safe place; to take down and make safe, to house the upper spars. \ (v. i.) To take shelter or lodging; to abide to dwell; to lodge. \ (v. i.) To have a position in one of the houses. See House, n., 8.
ins how ad. in what way; to what amount \ (adv.) In what manner or way; by what means or process. \ (adv.) To what degree or extent, number or amount; in what proportion; by what measure or quality. \ (adv.) For what reason; from what cause. \ (adv.) In what state, condition, or plight. \ (adv.) By what name, designation, or title. \ (adv.) At what price; how dear.
ins hundred (n.) The product of ten mulitplied by ten, or the number of ten times ten; a collection or sum, consisting of ten times ten units or objects; five score. Also, a symbol representing one hundred units, as 100 or C. \ (n.) A division of a country in England, supposed to have originally contained a hundred families, or freemen. \ (a.) Ten times ten; five score; as, a hundred dollars.
ins hungry (superl.) Feeling hunger; having a keen appetite; feeling uneasiness or distress from want of food; hence, having an eager desire. \ (superl.) Showing hunger or a craving desire; voracious. \ (superl.) Not rich or fertile; poor; barren; starved; as, a hungry soil.
ins hurry v. to do or go fast \ (v. t.) To hasten; to impel to greater speed; to urge on. \ (v. t.) To impel to precipitate or thoughtless action; to urge to confused or irregular activity. \ (v. t.) To cause to be done quickly. \ (v. i.) To move or act with haste; to proceed with celerity or precipitation; as, let us hurry. \ (n.) The act of hurrying in motion or business; pressure; urgency; bustle; confusion.
ins hurt v. to cause pain, injury or damage \ (n.) A band on a trip-hammer helve, bearing the trunnions. \ (n.) A husk. See Husk, 2. \ (imp. & p. p.) of Hurt \ (v. t.) To cause physical pain to; to do bodily harm to; to wound or bruise painfully. \ (v. t.) To impar the value, usefulness, beauty, or pleasure of; to damage; to injure; to harm. \ (v. t.) To wound the feelings of; to cause mental pain to; to offend in honor or self-respect; to annoy; to grieve.
ins husband n. a man who is married \ (n.) The male head of a household; one who orders the economy of a family. \ (n.) A cultivator; a tiller; a husbandman. \ (n.) One who manages or directs with prudence and economy; a frugal person; an economist. \ (n.) A married man; a man who has a wife; -- the correlative to wife. \ (n.) The male of a pair of animals. \ (v. t.) To direct and manage with frugality; to use or employ to good purpose and the best advantage; to spend, apply, or use, with economy. \ (v. t.) To cultivate, as land; to till. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a husband.
ins ice n. frozen water \ (n.) Water or other fluid frozen or reduced to the solid state by cold; frozen water. It is a white or transparent colorless substance, crystalline, brittle, and viscoidal. Its specific gravity (0.92, that of water at 4, C. being 1.0) being less than that of water, ice floats. \ (n.) Concreted sugar. \ (n.) Water, cream, custard, etc., sweetened, flavored, and artificially frozen. \ (n.) Any substance having the appearance of ice; as, camphor ice. \ (v. t.) To cover with ice; to convert into ice, or into something resembling ice. \ (v. t.) To cover with icing, or frosting made of sugar and milk or white of egg; to frost, as cakes, tarts, etc. \ (v. t.) To chill or cool, as with ice; to freeze.
ins idea n. a thought or picture in the mind; a belief \ (n.) The transcript, image, or picture of a visible object, that is formed by the mind; also, a similar image of any object whatever, whether sensible or spiritual. \ (n.) A general notion, or a conception formed by generalization. \ (n.) Hence: Any object apprehended, conceived, or thought of, by the mind; a notion, conception, or thought; the real object that is conceived or thought of. \ (n.) A belief, option, or doctrine; a characteristic or controlling principle; as, an essential idea; the idea of development. \ (n.) A plan or purpose of action; intention; design. \ (n.) A rational conception; the complete conception of an object when thought of in all its essential elements or constituents; the necessary metaphysical or constituent attributes and relations, when conceived in the abstract. \ (n.) A fiction object or picture created by the imagination; the same when proposed as a pattern to be copied, or a standard to be reached; one of the archetypes or patterns of created things, conceived by the Platonists to have excited objectively from eternity in the mind of the Deity.
ins if conj. on condition; provided that ("I will go if you go.") \ (conj.) In case that; granting, allowing, or supposing that; -- introducing a condition or supposition. \ (conj.) Whether; -- in dependent questions.
ins ill (a.) Contrary to good, in a physical sense; contrary or opposed to advantage, happiness, etc.; bad; evil; unfortunate; disagreeable; unfavorable. \ (a.) Contrary to good, in a moral sense; wicked; wrong; iniquitious; naughtly; improper. \ (a.) Sick; indisposed; unwell; diseased; disordered; as, ill of a fever. \ (a.) Not according with rule, fitness, or propriety; incorrect; rude; unpolished; inelegant. \ (n.) Whatever annoys or impairs happiness, or prevents success; evil of any kind; misfortune; calamity; disease; pain, the ills of humanity. \ (n.) Whatever is contrary to good; wickedness; depravity; iniquity; evil. \ (adv.) In a ill manner; badly; weakly.
ins important ad. having great meaning, value or power \ (v. t.) Full of, or burdened by, import; charged with great interests; restless; anxious. \ (v. t.) Carrying or possessing weight or consequence; of valuable content or bearing; significant; weighty. \ (v. t.) Bearing on; forcible; driving. \ (v. t.) Importunate; pressing; urgent.
ins in prep. inside; held by; contained by; surrounded by; during \ (prep.) The specific signification of in is situation or place with respect to surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying being, resting, or moving within limits, or within circumstances or conditions of any kind conceived of as limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly or in part. In its different applications, it approaches some of the meanings of, and sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and among. \ (prep.) With reference to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the air. \ (prep.) With reference to circumstances or conditions, he is in difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. \ (prep.) With reference to a whole which includes or comprises the part spoken of, the first in his family; the first regiment in the army. \ (prep.) With reference to physical surrounding, personal states, etc., abstractly denoted, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live in fear. \ (prep.) With reference to character, reach, scope, or influence considered as establishing a limitation, to be in one's favor. \ (prep.) With reference to movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in God. \ (prep.) With reference to a limit of time, in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. \ (adv.) Not out; inside. In, the preposition, becomes an adverb by omission of its object, leaving it as the representative of an adverbial phrase, the context indicating what the omitted object is, he takes in the situation (i. e., he comprehends it in his mind); the Republicans were in (i. e., in office); in at one ear and out at the other (i. e., in or into the head); his side was in (i. e., in the turn at the bat); he came in (i. e., into the house). \ (adv.) With privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. \ (n.) One who is in office; -- the opposite of out. \ (n.) A reentrant angle; a nook or corner. \ (v. t.) To inclose; to take in; to harvest.
ins inside (adv.) Within the sides of; in the interior; contained within; as, inside a house, book, bottle, etc. \ (a.) Being within; included or inclosed in anything; contained; interior; internal, the inside passengers of a stagecoach; inside decoration. \ (a.) Adapted to the interior. \ (n.) The part within; interior or internal portion; content. \ (n.) The inward parts; entrails; bowels; hence, that which is within; private thoughts and feelings. \ (n.) An inside passenger of a coach or carriage, as distinguished from one upon the outside.
ins interest n. what is important to someone ("He acted to protect his interests." "She had a great interest in painting."); a share in owning a business; money paid for the use of money borrowed \ (n.) To engage the attention of; to awaken interest in; to excite emotion or passion in, in behalf of a person or thing; as, the subject did not interest him; to interest one in charitable work. \ (n.) To be concerned with or engaged in; to affect; to concern; to excite; -- often used impersonally. \ (n.) To cause or permit to share. \ (n.) Excitement of feeling, whether pleasant or painful, accompanying special attention to some object; concern. \ (n.) Participation in advantage, profit, and responsibility; share; portion; part, an interest in a brewery; he has parted with his interest in the stocks. \ (n.) Advantage, personal or general; good, regarded as a selfish benefit; benefit. \ (n.) Premium paid for the use of money, -- usually reckoned as a percentage, interest at five per cent per annum on ten thousand dollars. \ (n.) Any excess of advantage over and above an exact equivalent for what is given or rendered. \ (n.) The persons interested in any particular business or measure, taken collectively, the iron interest; the cotton interest.
ins interested (imp. & p. p.) of Interest \ (v. t.) Having the attention engaged; having emotion or passion excited; as, an interested listener. \ (v. t.) Having an interest; concerned in a cause or in consequences; liable to be affected or prejudiced, an interested witness.
ins interesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Interest \ (a.) Engaging the attention; exciting, or adapted to excite, interest, curiosity, or emotion; as, an interesting story; interesting news.
ins into (prep.) To the inside of; within. It is used in a variety of applications. \ (prep.) Expressing entrance, or a passing from the outside of a thing to its interior parts; -- following verbs expressing motion; as, come into the house; go into the church; one stream falls or runs into another; water enters into the fine vessels of plants. \ (prep.) Expressing penetration beyond the outside or surface, or access to the inside, or contents, to look into a letter or book; to look into an apartment. \ (prep.) Indicating insertion, to infuse more spirit or animation into a composition. \ (prep.) Denoting inclusion, put these ideas into other words. \ (prep.) Indicating the passing of a thing from one form, condition, or state to another, compound substances may be resolved into others which are more simple; ice is convertible into water, and water into vapor; men are more easily drawn than forced into compliance; we may reduce many distinct substances into one mass; men are led by evidence into belief of truth, and are often enticed into the commission of crimes'into; she burst into tears; children are sometimes frightened into fits; all persons are liable to be seduced into error and folly.
ins invite v. to ask someone to take part in or join an event, organization or gathering \ (v. t.) To ask; to request; to bid; to summon; to ask to do some act, or go to some place; esp., to ask to an entertainment or visit; to request the company of; as, to invite to dinner, or a wedding, or an excursion. \ (v. t.) To allure; to draw to; to tempt to come; to induce by pleasure or hope; to attract. \ (v. t.) To give occasion for, to invite criticism. \ (v. i.) To give invitation.
ins is (v. i.) The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man. See Be.
ins island n. a land area with water all around it \ (n.) A tract of land surrounded by water, and smaller than a continent. Cf. Continent. \ (n.) Anything regarded as resembling an island; as, an island of ice. \ (n.) See Isle, n., 2. \ (v. t.) To cause to become or to resemble an island; to make an island or islands of; to isle. \ (v. t.) To furnish with an island or with islands, to island the deep.
ins it pro. a thing, place, event or idea that is being spoken about ("The sky is blue, but it also has a few white clouds.") \ (pron.) The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them). \ (pron.) As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home. \ (pron.) As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known, I saw it was John. \ (pron.) As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb, it snows; it rains. \ (pron.) As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of things, and the like, how is it with the sick man? \ (pron.) As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used humorously as a verb, to foot it (i. e., to walk).
ins its Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It.
ins jam (n.) A kind of frock for children. \ (n.) See Jamb. \ (v. t.) To press into a close or tight position; to crowd; to squeeze; to wedge in. \ (v. t.) To crush or bruise; as, to jam a finger in the crack of a door. \ (v. t.) To bring (a vessel) so close to the wind that half her upper sails are laid aback. \ (n.) A mass of people or objects crowded together; also, the pressure from a crowd; a crush, a jam in a street; a jam of logs in a river. \ (n.) An injury caused by jamming. \ (n.) A preserve of fruit boiled with sugar and water, raspberry jam; currant jam; grape jam.
ins job n. the work that one does to earn money
ins join v. to put together or come together; to become part of or a member of \ (v. t.) To bring together, literally or figuratively; to place in contact; to connect; to couple; to unite; to combine; to associate; to add; to append. \ (v. t.) To associate one's self to; to be or become connected with; to league one's self with; to unite with; as, to join a party; to join the church. \ (v. t.) To unite in marriage. \ (v. t.) To enjoin upon; to command. \ (v. t.) To accept, or engage in, as a contest, to join encounter, battle, issue. \ (v. i.) To be contiguous, close, or in contact; to come together; to mingle; to form a union, the hones of the skull join; two rivers join. \ (n.) The line joining two points; the point common to two intersecting lines.
ins joke n. something done or said to cause others to laugh \ (n.) Something said for the sake of exciting a laugh; something witty or sportive (commonly indicating more of hilarity or humor than jest); a jest; a witticism; as, to crack good-natured jokes. \ (n.) Something not said seriously, or not actually meant; something done in sport. \ (v. t.) To make merry with; to make jokes upon; to rally; to banter, to joke a comrade. \ (v. i.) To do something for sport, or as a joke; to be merry in words or actions; to jest.
ins joy (n.) The passion or emotion excited by the acquisition or expectation of good; pleasurable feelings or emotions caused by success, good fortune, and the like, or by a rational prospect of possessing what we love or desire; gladness; exhilaration of spirits; delight. \ (n.) That which causes joy or happiness. \ (n.) The sign or exhibition of joy; gayety; mirth; merriment; festivity. \ (n.) To rejoice; to be glad; to delight; to exult. \ (v. t.) To give joy to; to congratulate. \ (v. t.) To gladden; to make joyful; to exhilarate. \ (v. t.) To enjoy.
ins juice (n.) The characteristic fluid of any vegetable or animal substance; the sap or part which can be expressed from fruit, etc.; the fluid part which separates from meat in cooking. \ (v. t.) To moisten; to wet.
ins jump v. to push down on the feet and move up quickly into the air \ (n.) A kind of loose jacket for men. \ (n.) A bodice worn instead of stays by women in the 18th century. \ (v. i.) To spring free from the ground by the muscular action of the feet and legs; to project one's self through the air; to spring; to bound; to leap. \ (v. i.) To move as if by jumping; to bounce; to jolt. \ (v. i.) To coincide; to agree; to accord; to tally; -- followed by with. \ (v. t.) To pass by a spring or leap; to overleap; as, to jump a stream. \ (v. t.) To cause to jump, he jumped his horse across the ditch. \ (v. t.) To expose to danger; to risk; to hazard. \ (v. t.) To join by a butt weld. \ (v. t.) To thicken or enlarge by endwise blows; to upset. \ (v. t.) To bore with a jumper. \ (n.) The act of jumping; a leap; a spring; a bound. \ (n.) An effort; an attempt; a venture. \ (n.) The space traversed by a leap. \ (n.) A dislocation in a stratum; a fault. \ (n.) An abrupt interruption of level in a piece of brickwork or masonry. \ (a.) Nice; exact; matched; fitting; precise. \ (adv.) Exactly; pat.
ins junior (a.) Less advanced in age than another; younger. \ (a.) Lower in standing or in rank; later in office; as, a junior partner; junior counsel; junior captain. \ (a.) Composed of juniors, whether younger or a lower standing, the junior class; of or pertaining to juniors or to a junior class. See Junior, n., 2. \ (n.) Belonging to a younger person, or an earlier time of life. \ (n.) A younger person. \ (n.) Hence: One of a lower or later standing; specifically, in American colleges, one in the third year of his course, one in the fourth or final year being designated a senior; in some seminaries, one in the first year, in others, one in the second year, of a three years' course.
ins just ad. only ("Help me for just a minute."); very shortly before or after the present ("He just left."); at the same time ("He left just as I came in."); what is right or fair ("The law is just, in my opinion.") \ (a.) Conforming or conformable to rectitude or justice; not doing wrong to any; violating no right or obligation; upright; righteous; honest; true; -- said both of persons and things. \ (a.) Not transgressing the requirement of truth and propriety; conformed to the truth of things, to reason, or to a proper standard; exact; normal; reasonable; regular; due; as, a just statement; a just inference. \ (a.) Rendering or disposed to render to each one his due; equitable; fair; impartial, just judge. \ (adv.) Precisely; exactly; -- in place, time, or degree; neither more nor less than is stated. \ (adv.) Closely; nearly; almost. \ (adv.) Barely; merely; scarcely; only; by a very small space or time, he just missed the train; just too late. \ (v. i.) To joust. \ (n.) A joust.
ins keep v. to possess; to have for oneself \ (v. t.) To care; to desire. \ (v. t.) To hold; to restrain from departure or removal; not to let go of; to retain in one's power or possession; not to lose; to retain; to detain. \ (v. t.) To cause to remain in a given situation or condition; to maintain unchanged; to hold or preserve in any state or tenor. \ (v. t.) To have in custody; to have in some place for preservation; to take charge of. \ (v. t.) To preserve from danger, harm, or loss; to guard. \ (v. t.) To preserve from discovery or publicity; not to communicate, reveal, or betray, as a secret. \ (v. t.) To attend upon; to have the care of; to tend. \ (v. t.) To record transactions, accounts, or events in; as, to keep books, a journal, etc. ; also, to enter (as accounts, records, etc. ) in a book. \ (v. t.) To maintain, as an establishment, institution, or the like; to conduct; to manage, to keep store. \ (v. t.) To supply with necessaries of life; to entertain, to keep boarders. \ (v. t.) To have in one's service; to have and maintain, as an assistant, a servant, a mistress, a horse, etc. \ (v. t.) To have habitually in stock for sale. \ (v. t.) To continue in, as a course or mode of action; not to intermit or fall from; to hold to; to maintain, to keep silence; to keep one's word; to keep possession. \ (v. t.) To observe; to adhere to; to fulfill; not to swerve from or violate; to practice or perform, as duty; not to neglect; to be faithful to. \ (v. t.) To confine one's self to; not to quit; to remain in, to keep one's house, room, bed; hence, to haunt; to frequent. \ (v. t.) To observe duty, as a festival; to celebrate; to solemnize, to keep a feast. \ (v. i.) To remain in any position or state; to continue; to abide; to stay, to keep at a distance; to keep aloft; to keep near; to keep in the house; to keep before or behind; to keep in favor; to keep out of company, or out reach. \ (v. i.) To last; to endure; to remain unimpaired. \ (v. i.) To reside for a time; to lodge; to dwell. \ (v. i.) To take care; to be solicitous; to watch. \ (v. i.) To be in session, school keeps to-day. \ (n.) The act or office of keeping; custody; guard; care; heed; charge. \ (n.) The state of being kept, the resulting condition; case, to be in good keep. \ (n.) The means or provisions by which one is kept; maintenance; support, the keep of a horse. \ (n.) That which keeps or protects; a stronghold; a fortress; a castle; specifically, the strongest and securest part of a castle, often used as a place of residence by the lord of the castle, especially during a siege; the donjon. See Illust. of Castle. \ (n.) That which is kept in charge; a charge. \ (n.) A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place.
ins key (n.) An instrument by means of which the bolt of a lock is shot or drawn; usually, a removable metal instrument fitted to the mechanism of a particular lock and operated by turning in its place. \ (n.) An instrument which is turned like a key in fastening or adjusting any mechanism; as, a watch key; a bed key, etc. \ (n.) That part of an instrument or machine which serves as the means of operating it, a telegraph key; the keys of a pianoforte, or of a typewriter. \ (n.) A position or condition which affords entrance, control, pr possession, etc., the key of a line of defense; the key of a country; the key of a political situation. Hence, that which serves to unlock, open, discover, or solve something unknown or difficult, the key to a riddle; the key to a problem. \ (n.) That part of a mechanism which serves to lock up, make fast, or adjust to position. \ (n.) A piece of wood used as a wedge. \ (n.) The last board of a floor when laid down. \ (n.) A keystone. \ (n.) That part of the plastering which is forced through between the laths and holds the rest in place. \ (n.) A wedge to unite two or more pieces, or adjust their relative position; a cotter; a forelock. \ (n.) A bar, pin or wedge, to secure a crank, pulley, coupling, upon a shaft, and prevent relative turning; sometimes holding by friction alone, but more frequently by its resistance to shearing, being usually embedded partly in the shaft and partly in the crank, etc. \ (n.) An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit furnished with a wing, as the fruit of the ash and maple; a samara; -- called also key fruit. \ (n.) A family of tones whose regular members are called diatonic tones, and named key tone (or tonic) or one (or eight), mediant or three, dominant or five, subdominant or four, submediant or six, supertonic or two, and subtonic or seven. Chromatic tones are temporary members of a key, under such names as " sharp four," "flat seven," etc. Scales and tunes of every variety are made from the tones of a key. \ (n.) The fundamental tone of a movement to which its modulations are referred, and with which it generally begins and ends; keynote. \ (n.) Fig: The general pitch or tone of a sentence or utterance. \ (v. t.) To fasten or secure firmly; to fasten or tighten with keys or wedges. \ (n.) A metallic lever by which the circuit of the sending or transmitting part of a station equipment may be easily and rapidly opened and closed; any device for closing or opening an electric circuit. \ (n.) A simplified version or analysis which accompanies something as a clue to its explanation, a book or table containing the solutions to problems, ciphers, allegories, or the like, or a table or synopsis of conspicuous distinguishing characters of members of a taxonomic group. \ A bar or key, in a typewriter or typesetting machine, used for spacing between letters.
ins kick v. to hit with the foot \ (v. t.) To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog. \ (v. i.) To thrust out the foot or feet with violence; to strike out with the foot or feet, as in defense or in bad temper; esp., to strike backward, as a horse does, or to have a habit of doing so. Hence, figuratively: To show ugly resistance, opposition, or hostility; to spurn. \ (v. i.) To recoil; -- said of a musket, cannon, etc. \ (n.) A blow with the foot or feet; a striking or thrust with the foot. \ (n.) The projection on the tang of the blade of a pocket knife, which prevents the edge of the blade from striking the spring. See Illust. of Pocketknife. \ (n.) A projection in a mold, to form a depression in the surface of the brick. \ (n.) The recoil of a musket or other firearm, when discharged.
ins kid (n.) A young goat. \ (n.) A young child or infant; hence, a simple person, easily imposed on. \ (n.) A kind of leather made of the skin of the young goat, or of the skin of rats, etc. \ (n.) Gloves made of kid. \ (n.) A small wooden mess tub; -- a name given by sailors to one in which they receive their food. \ (v. i.) To bring forth a young goat. \ (n.) A fagot; a bundle of heath and furze. \ (p. p.) of Kythe. \ (v. t.) See Kiddy, v. t. \ (n.) Among pugilists, thieves, etc., a youthful expert; -- chiefly used attributively; as, kid Jones.
ins kill v. to make dead; to cause to die \ (n.) A kiln. \ (n.) A channel or arm of the sea; a river; a stream; as, the channel between Staten Island and Bergen Neck is the Kill van Kull, or the Kills; -- used also in composition, Schuylkill, Catskill, etc. \ (v. t.) To deprive of life, animal or vegetable, in any manner or by any means; to render inanimate; to put to death; to slay. \ (v. t.) To destroy; to ruin, to kill one's chances; to kill the sale of a book. \ (v. t.) To cause to cease; to quell; to calm; to still, in seamen's language, a shower of rain kills the wind. \ (v. t.) To destroy the effect of; to counteract; to neutralize, alkali kills acid. \ (n.) The act of killing. \ (n.) An animal killed in the hunt, as by a beast of prey.
ins kind n. sort ("What kind of dog is that?"); ad. gentle; caring; helpful \ (superl.) Characteristic of the species; belonging to one's nature; natural; native. \ (superl.) Having feelings befitting our common nature; congenial; sympathetic; as, a kind man; a kind heart. \ (superl.) Showing tenderness or goodness; disposed to do good and confer happiness; averse to hurting or paining; benevolent; benignant; gracious. \ (superl.) Proceeding from, or characterized by, goodness, gentleness, or benevolence, a kind act. \ (superl.) Gentle; tractable; easily governed, a horse kind in harness. \ (a.) Nature; natural instinct or disposition. \ (a.) Race; genus; species; generic class, in mankind or humankind. \ (a.) Nature; style; character; sort; fashion; manner; variety; description; class, there are several kinds of eloquence, of style, and of music; many kinds of government; various kinds of soil, etc. \ (v. t.) To beget.
ins king (n.) A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones or metal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood, and struck with a hammer. \ (n.) A chief ruler; a sovereign; one invested with supreme authority over a nation, country, or tribe, usually by hereditary succession; a monarch; a prince. \ (n.) One who, or that which, holds a supreme position or rank; a chief among competitors; as, a railroad king; a money king; the king of the lobby; the king of beasts. \ (n.) A playing card having the picture of a king, the king of diamonds. \ (n.) The chief piece in the game of chess. \ (n.) A crowned man in the game of draughts. \ (n.) The title of two historical books in the Old Testament. \ (v. i.) To supply with a king; to make a king of; to raise to royalty.
ins kiss v. to touch with the mouth to show love or honor \ (v. t.) To salute with the lips, as a mark of affection, reverence, submission, forgiveness, etc. \ (v. t.) To touch gently, as if fondly or caressingly. \ (v. i.) To make or give salutation with the lips in token of love, respect, etc.; as, kiss and make friends. \ (v. i.) To meet; to come in contact; to touch fondly. \ (v.) A salutation with the lips, as a token of affection, a parting kiss; a kiss of reconciliation. \ (v.) A small piece of confectionery.
ins kitchen (n.) A cookroom; the room of a house appropriated to cookery. \ (n.) A utensil for roasting meat; as, a tin kitchen. \ (v. t.) To furnish food to; to entertain with the fare of the kitchen.
ins knee (n.) In man, the joint in the middle part of the leg. \ (n.) The joint, or region of the joint, between the thigh and leg. \ (n.) In the horse and allied animals, the carpal joint, corresponding to the wrist in man. \ (n.) A piece of timber or metal formed with an angle somewhat in the shape of the human knee when bent. \ (n.) A bending of the knee, as in respect or courtesy. \ (v. t.) To supplicate by kneeling.
ins knife n. a tool or weapon used to cut \ (n.) An instrument consisting of a thin blade, usually of steel and having a sharp edge for cutting, fastened to a handle, but of many different forms and names for different uses; as, table knife, drawing knife, putty knife, pallet knife, pocketknife, penknife, chopping knife, etc.. \ (n.) A sword or dagger. \ (v. t.) To prune with the knife. \ (v. t.) To cut or stab with a knife. \ (v. t.) Fig.: To stab in the back; to try to defeat by underhand means, esp. in politics; to vote or work secretly against (a candidate of one's own party).
ins know v. to understand something as correct; to have the facts about; to recognize someone because you have met and talked together before \ (n.) Knee. \ (v. i.) To perceive or apprehend clearly and certainly; to understand; to have full information of; as, to know one's duty. \ (v. i.) To be convinced of the truth of; to be fully assured of, to know things from information. \ (v. i.) To be acquainted with; to be no stranger to; to be more or less familiar with the person, character, etc., of; to possess experience of, to know an author; to know the rules of an organization. \ (v. i.) To recognize; to distinguish; to discern the character of, to know a person's face or figure. \ (v. i.) To have sexual commerce with. \ (v. i.) To have knowledge; to have a clear and certain perception; to possess wisdom, instruction, or information; -- often with of. \ (v. i.) To be assured; to feel confident.
ins lady (n.) A woman who looks after the domestic affairs of a family; a mistress; the female head of a household. \ (n.) A woman having proprietary rights or authority; mistress; -- a feminine correlative of lord. \ (n.) A woman to whom the particular homage of a knight was paid; a woman to whom one is devoted or bound; a sweetheart. \ (n.) A woman of social distinction or position. In England, a title prefixed to the name of any woman whose husband is not of lower rank than a baron, or whose father was a nobleman not lower than an earl. The wife of a baronet or knight has the title of Lady by courtesy, but not by right. \ (n.) A woman of refined or gentle manners; a well-bred woman; -- the feminine correlative of gentleman. \ (n.) A wife; -- not now in approved usage. \ (n.) The triturating apparatus in the stomach of a lobster; -- so called from a fancied resemblance to a seated female figure. It consists of calcareous plates. \ (a.) Belonging or becoming to a lady; ladylike. \ The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. See Annunciation.
ins lake n. a large area of fresh water surrounded by land \ (n.) A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually by precipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminium hydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc. \ (n.) A kind of fine white linen, formerly in use. \ (v. i.) To play; to sport. \ (n.) A large body of water contained in a depression of the earth's surface, and supplied from the drainage of a more or less extended area.
ins land v. to come to the earth from the air ("Airplanes land at airports."); n. the part of the earth not covered by water; the ground \ (n.) Urine. See Lant. \ (n.) The solid part of the surface of the earth; -- opposed to water as constituting a part of such surface, especially to oceans and seas; as, to sight land after a long voyage. \ (n.) Any portion, large or small, of the surface of the earth, considered by itself, or as belonging to an individual or a people, as a country, estate, farm, or tract. \ (n.) Ground, in respect to its nature or quality; soil, wet land; good or bad land. \ (n.) The inhabitants of a nation or people. \ (n.) The mainland, in distinction from islands. \ (n.) The ground or floor. \ (n.) The ground left unplowed between furrows; any one of several portions into which a field is divided for convenience in plowing. \ (n.) Any ground, or earth whatsoever, as meadows, pastures, woods, etc., and everything annexed to it, whether by nature, as trees, water, or by the hand of man, as buildings, fences; real estate. \ (n.) The lap of the strakes in a clinker-built boat; the lap of plates in an iron vessel; -- called also landing. \ (n.) In any surface prepared with indentations, perforations, or grooves, that part of the surface which is not so treated, as the level part of a millstone between the furrows, or the surface of the bore of a rifled gun between the grooves. \ (v. t.) To set or put on shore from a ship or other water craft; to disembark; to debark. \ (v. t.) To catch and bring to shore; to capture, to land a fish. \ (v. t.) To set down after conveying; to cause to fall, alight, or reach; to bring to the end of a course, he landed the quoit near the stake; to be thrown from a horse and landed in the mud; to land one in difficulties or mistakes. \ (v. i.) To go on shore from a ship or boat; to come to the end of a course.
ins language n. words and their use; what people speak in a country, nation or group \ (n.) Any means of conveying or communicating ideas; specifically, human speech; the expression of ideas by the voice; sounds, expressive of thought, articulated by the organs of the throat and mouth. \ (n.) The expression of ideas by writing, or any other instrumentality. \ (n.) The forms of speech, or the methods of expressing ideas, peculiar to a particular nation. \ (n.) The characteristic mode of arranging words, peculiar to an individual speaker or writer; manner of expression; style. \ (n.) The inarticulate sounds by which animals inferior to man express their feelings or their wants. \ (n.) The suggestion, by objects, actions, or conditions, of ideas associated therewith; as, the language of flowers. \ (n.) The vocabulary and phraseology belonging to an art or department of knowledge, medical language; the language of chemistry or theology. \ (n.) A race, as distinguished by its speech. \ (v. t.) To communicate by language; to express in language.
ins large ad. big; being of more than usual size, amount or number; opposite small \ (superl.) Exceeding most other things of like kind in bulk, capacity, quantity, superficial dimensions, or number of constituent units; big; great; capacious; extensive; -- opposed to small; as, a large horse; a large house or room; a large lake or pool; a large jug or spoon; a large vineyard; a large army; a large city. \ (superl.) Abundant; ample, a large supply of provisions. \ (superl.) Full in statement; diffuse; full; profuse. \ (superl.) Having more than usual power or capacity; having broad sympathies and generous impulses; comprehensive; -- said of the mind and heart. \ (superl.) Free; unembarrassed. \ (superl.) Unrestrained by decorum; -- said of language. \ (superl.) Prodigal in expending; lavish. \ (superl.) Crossing the line of a ship's course in a favorable direction; -- said of the wind when it is abeam, or between the beam and the quarter. \ (adv.) Freely; licentiously. \ (n.) A musical note, formerly in use, equal to two longs, four breves, or eight semibreves.
ins last v. to continue ("The talks will last three days."); ad. after all others; the only one remaining ("She is the last person in line.") \ (3d pers. sing. pres.) of Last, to endure, contracted from lasteth. \ (a.) Being after all the others, similarly classed or considered, in time, place, or order of succession; following all the rest; final; hindmost; farthest; as, the last year of a century; the last man in a line of soldiers; the last page in a book; his last chance. \ (a.) Next before the present, I saw him last week. \ (a.) Supreme; highest in degree; utmost. \ (a.) Lowest in rank or degree, the last prize. \ (a.) Farthest of all from a given quality, character, or condition; most unlikely; having least fitness, he is the last person to be accused of theft. \ (a.) At a time or on an occasion which is the latest of all those spoken of or which have occurred; the last time, I saw him last in New York. \ (a.) In conclusion; finally. \ (a.) At a time next preceding the present time. \ (v. i.) To continue in time; to remain in existence. \ (v. i.) To endure use, or continue in existence, without impairment or exhaustion, this cloth lasts better than that; the fuel will last through the winter. \ (v. i.) A wooden block shaped like the human foot, on which boots and shoes are formed. \ (v. t.) To shape with a last; to fasten or fit to a last; to place smoothly on a last, to last a boot. \ (n.) A load; a heavy burden; hence, a certain weight or measure, generally estimated at 4,000 lbs., but varying for different articles and in different countries. In England, a last of codfish, white herrings, meal, or ashes, is twelve barrels; a last of corn, ten quarters, or eighty bushels, in some parts of England, twenty-one quarters; of gunpowder, twenty-four barrels, each containing 100 lbs; of red herrings, twenty cades, or 20,000; of hides, twelve dozen; of leather, twenty dickers; of pitch and tar, fourteen barrels; of wool, twelve sacks; of flax or feathers, 1,700 lbs. \ (n.) The burden of a ship; a cargo.
ins late ad. after the correct time; near the end; opposite early \ (v.) Coming after the time when due, or after the usual or proper time; not early; slow; tardy; long delayed; as, a late spring. \ (v.) Far advanced toward the end or close, a late hour of the day; a late period of life. \ (v.) Existing or holding some position not long ago, but not now; lately deceased, departed, or gone out of office, the late bishop of London; the late administration. \ (v.) Not long past; happening not long ago; recent, the late rains; we have received late intelligence. \ (v.) Continuing or doing until an advanced hour of the night, late revels; a late watcher. \ (a.) After the usual or proper time, or the time appointed; after delay, he arrived late; -- opposed to early. \ (a.) Not long ago; lately. \ (a.) Far in the night, day, week, or other particular period, to lie abed late; to sit up late at night.
ins later (n.) A brick or tile. \ (a.) Compar. of Late, a. & adv.
ins laugh v. to make sounds to express pleasure or happy feelings \ (v. i.) To show mirth, satisfaction, or derision, by peculiar movement of the muscles of the face, particularly of the mouth, causing a lighting up of the face and eyes, and usually accompanied by the emission of explosive or chuckling sounds from the chest and throat; to indulge in laughter. \ (v. i.) Fig.: To be or appear gay, cheerful, pleasant, mirthful, lively, or brilliant; to sparkle; to sport. \ (v. t.) To affect or influence by means of laughter or ridicule. \ (v. t.) To express by, or utter with, laughter; -- with out. \ (n.) An expression of mirth peculiar to the human species; the sound heard in laughing; laughter. See Laugh, v. i.
ins leaf (n.) A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is elaborated under the influence of light; one of the parts of a plant which collectively constitute its foliage. \ (n.) A special organ of vegetation in the form of a lateral outgrowth from the stem, whether appearing as a part of the foliage, or as a cotyledon, a scale, a bract, a spine, or a tendril. \ (n.) Something which is like a leaf in being wide and thin and having a flat surface, or in being attached to a larger body by one edge or end; as : (a) A part of a book or folded sheet containing two pages upon its opposite sides. (b) A side, division, or part, that slides or is hinged, as of window shutters, folding doors, etc. (c) The movable side of a table. (d) A very thin plate; as, gold leaf. (e) A portion of fat lying in a separate fold or layer. (f) One of the teeth of a pinion, especially when small. \ (v. i.) To shoot out leaves; to produce leaves; to leave, the trees leaf in May.
ins learn v. to get knowledge about; to come to know a fact or facts \ (v. t.) To gain knowledge or information of; to ascertain by inquiry, study, or investigation; to receive instruction concerning; to fix in the mind; to acquire understanding of, or skill; as, to learn the way; to learn a lesson; to learn dancing; to learn to skate; to learn the violin; to learn the truth about something. \ (v. t.) To communicate knowledge to; to teach. \ (v. i.) To acquire knowledge or skill; to make progress in acquiring knowledge or skill; to receive information or instruction, this child learns quickly.
ins leave v. to go away from; to let something stay where it is \ (v. i.) To send out leaves; to leaf; -- often with out. \ (v. t.) To raise; to levy. \ (n.) Liberty granted by which restraint or illegality is removed; permission; allowance; license. \ (n.) The act of leaving or departing; a formal parting; a leaving; farewell; adieu; -- used chiefly in the phrase, to take leave, i. e., literally, to take permission to go. \ (v.) To withdraw one's self from; to go away from; to depart from; as, to leave the house. \ (v.) To let remain unremoved or undone; to let stay or continue, in distinction from what is removed or changed. \ (v.) To cease from; to desist from; to abstain from. \ (v.) To desert; to abandon; to forsake; hence, to give up; to relinquish. \ (v.) To let be or do without interference, I left him to his reflections; I leave my hearers to judge. \ (v.) To put; to place; to deposit; to deliver; to commit; to submit -- with a sense of withdrawing one's self from, leave your hat in the hall; we left our cards; to leave the matter to arbitrators. \ (v.) To have remaining at death, to bequeath, he left a large estate; he left a good name; he left a legacy to his niece. \ (v. i.) To depart; to set out. \ (v. i.) To cease; to desist; to leave off.
ins left ad. on the side that is toward the west when one is facing north; opposite right \ (imp. & p. p.) of Leave \ (imp. & p. p.) of Leave. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to that side of the body in man on which the muscular action of the limbs is usually weaker than on the other side; -- opposed to right, when used in reference to a part of the body; as, the left hand, or arm; the left ear. Also said of the corresponding side of the lower animals. \ (n.) That part of surrounding space toward which the left side of one's body is turned, the house is on the left when you face North. \ (n.) Those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who are in the opposition; the advanced republicans and extreme radicals. They have their seats at the left-hand side of the presiding officer. See Center, and Right. \ (a.) Situated so that the left side of the body is toward it, the left side of a deliberative meeting is that to the left of the presiding officer; the left wing of an army is that to the left of the center to one facing an enemy.
ins leg (n.) A limb or member of an animal used for supporting the body, and in running, climbing, and swimming; esp., that part of the limb between the knee and foot. \ (n.) That which resembles a leg in form or use; especially, any long and slender support on which any object rests; as, the leg of a table; the leg of a pair of compasses or dividers. \ (n.) The part of any article of clothing which covers the leg, the leg of a stocking or of a pair of trousers. \ (n.) A bow, esp. in the phrase to make a leg; probably from drawing the leg backward in bowing. \ (n.) A disreputable sporting character; a blackleg. \ (n.) The course and distance made by a vessel on one tack or between tacks. \ (n.) An extension of the boiler downward, in the form of a narrow space between vertical plates, sometimes nearly surrounding the furnace and ash pit, and serving to support the boiler; -- called also water leg. \ (n.) The case containing the lower part of the belt which carries the buckets. \ (n.) A fielder whose position is on the outside, a little in rear of the batter. \ (v. t.) To use as a leg, with it as object \ (v. t.) To bow. \ (v. t.) To run. \ (n.) Either side of a triangle of a triangle as distinguished from the base or, in a right triangle, from the hypotenuse; also, an indefinitely extending branch of a curve, as of a hyperbola. \ (n.) A branch or lateral circuit connecting an instrument with the main line. \ (n.) A branch circuit; one phase of a polyphase system.
ins lesson (n.) Anything read or recited to a teacher by a pupil or learner; something, as a portion of a book, assigned to a pupil to be studied or learned at one time. \ (n.) That which is learned or taught by an express effort; instruction derived from precept, experience, observation, or deduction; a precept; a doctrine; as, to take or give a lesson in drawing. \ (n.) A portion of Scripture read in divine service for instruction, here endeth the first lesson. \ (n.) A severe lecture; reproof; rebuke; warning. \ (n.) An exercise; a composition serving an educational purpose; a study. \ (v. t.) To teach; to instruct.
ins let v. to permit to do or to be; to make possible \ (v. t.) To retard; to hinder; to impede; to oppose. \ (n.) A retarding; hindrance; obstacle; impediment; delay; -- common in the phrase without let or hindrance, but elsewhere archaic. \ (n.) A stroke in which a ball touches the top of the net in passing over. \ (imp. & p. p.) of Let \ (v. t.) To leave; to relinquish; to abandon. \ (v. t.) To consider; to think; to esteem. \ (v. t.) To cause; to make; -- used with the infinitive in the active form but in the passive sense; as, let make, i. e., cause to be made; let bring, cause to be brought. \ (v. t.) To permit; to allow; to suffer; -- either affirmatively, by positive act, or negatively, by neglecting to restrain or prevent. \ (v. t.) To allow to be used or occupied for a compensation; to lease; to rent; to hire out; -- often with out, to let a farm; to let a house; to let out horses. \ (v. t.) To give, grant, or assign, as a work, privilege, or contract, to let the building of a bridge; to let out the lathing and the plastering. \ (v. i.) To forbear. \ (v. i.) To be let or leased, the farm lets for $500 a year. See note under Let, v. t.
ins letter n. a message written on paper; a communication in writing sent to another person \ (n.) One who lets or permits; one who lets anything for hire. \ (n.) One who retards or hinders. \ (n.) A mark or character used as the representative of a sound, or of an articulation of the human organs of speech; a first element of written language. \ (n.) A written or printed communication; a message expressed in intelligible characters on something adapted to conveyance, as paper, parchment, etc.; an epistle. \ (n.) A writing; an inscription. \ (n.) Verbal expression; literal statement or meaning; exact signification or requirement. \ (n.) A single type; type, collectively; a style of type. \ (n.) Learning; erudition; as, a man of letters. \ (n.) A letter; an epistle. \ (v. t.) To impress with letters; to mark with letters or words, a book gilt and lettered. \ (n.) A telegram longer than an ordinary message sent at rates lower than the standard message rate in consideration of its being sent and delivered subject to priority in service of regular messages. Such telegrams are called by the Western Union Company day / night, letters according to the time of sending, and by The Postal Telegraph Company day, / night, lettergrams.
ins level n. the amount or height that something reaches or rises to; the position of something or someone \ (n.) A line or surface to which, at every point, a vertical or plumb line is perpendicular; a line or surface which is everywhere parallel to the surface of still water; -- this is the true level, and is a curve or surface in which all points are equally distant from the center of the earth, or rather would be so if the earth were an exact sphere. \ (n.) A horizontal line or plane; that is, a straight line or a plane which is tangent to a true level at a given point and hence parallel to the horizon at that point; -- this is the apparent level at the given point. \ (n.) An approximately horizontal line or surface at a certain degree of altitude, or distance from the center of the earth; as, to climb from the level of the coast to the level of the plateau and then descend to the level of the valley or of the sea. \ (n.) Hence, figuratively, a certain position, rank, standard, degree, quality, character, etc., conceived of as in one of several planes of different elevation. \ (n.) A uniform or average height; a normal plane or altitude; a condition conformable to natural law or which will secure a level surface, moving fluids seek a level. \ (n.) An instrument by which to find a horizontal line, or adjust something with reference to a horizontal line. \ (n.) A measurement of the difference of altitude of two points, by means of a level, to take a level. \ (n.) A horizontal passage, drift, or adit, in a mine. \ (a.) Even; flat; having no part higher than another; having, or conforming to, the curvature which belongs to the undisturbed liquid parts of the earth's surface, a level field; level ground; the level surface of a pond or lake. \ (a.) Coinciding or parallel with the plane of the horizon; horizontal, the telescope is now level. \ (a.) Even with anything else; of the same height; on the same line or plane; on the same footing; of equal importance; -- followed by with, sometimes by to. \ (a.) Straightforward; direct; clear; open. \ (a.) Well balanced; even; just; steady; impartial, a level head; a level understanding. [Colloq.]  \ (a.) Of even tone; without rising or falling inflection. \ (v. t.) To make level; to make horizontal; to bring to the condition of a level line or surface; hence, to make flat or even, to level a road, a walk, or a garden. \ (v. t.) To bring to a lower level; to overthrow; to topple down; to reduce to a flat surface; to lower. \ (v. t.) To bring to a horizontal position, as a gun, to point in taking aim; to aim; to direct. \ (v. t.) Figuratively, to bring to a common level or plane, in respect of rank, condition, privilege, to level all the ranks and conditions of men. \ (v. t.) To adjust or adapt to a certain level, to level remarks to the capacity of children. \ (v. i.) To be level; to be on a level with, or on an equality with, something, to accord; to agree; to suit.
ins library (n.) A considerable collection of books kept for use, and not as merchandise; as, a private library; a public library. \ (n.) A building or apartment appropriated for holding such a collection of books.
ins life n. the time between being born and dying; opposite death; all living things \ (n.) The state of being which begins with generation, birth, or germination, and ends with death; also, the time during which this state continues; that state of an animal or plant in which all or any of its organs are capable of performing all or any of their functions; -- used of all animal and vegetable organisms. \ (n.) Of human beings: The union of the soul and body, the duration of their union; sometimes, the deathless quality or existence of the soul; as, man is a creature having an immortal life. \ (n.) The potential principle, or force, by which the organs of animals and plants are started and continued in the performance of their several and cooperative functions; the vital force, whether regarded as physical or spiritual. \ (n.) Figuratively: The potential or animating principle, the period of duration, of anything that is conceived of as resembling a natural organism in structure or functions, the life of a state, a machine, or a book; authority is the life of government. \ (n.) A certain way or manner of living with respect to conditions, circumstances, character, conduct, occupation, etc.; hence, human affairs, lives, considered collectively, as a distinct class or type, low life; a good or evil life; the life of Indians, or of miners. \ (n.) Animation; spirit; vivacity; vigor; energy. \ (n.) That which imparts or excites spirit or vigor; that upon which enjoyment or success depends, he was the life of the company, or of the enterprise. \ (n.) The living or actual form, person, thing, or state, a picture or a description from the life. \ (n.) A person; a living being, usually a human being, many lives were sacrificed. \ (n.) The system of animal nature; animals in general, or considered collectively. \ (n.) An essential constituent of life, esp. the blood. \ (n.) A history of the acts and events of a life; a biography, Johnson wrote the life of Milton. \ (n.) Enjoyment in the right use of the powers; especially, a spiritual existence; happiness in the favor of God; heavenly felicity. \ (n.) Something dear to one as one's existence; a darling; -- used as a term of endearment.
ins light n. a form of energy that affects the eyes so that one is able to see; anything that produces light; ad. bright; clear; not heavy
ins like v. to be pleased with; to have good feelings for someone or something; ad. in the same way as; similar to \ (superl.) Having the same, or nearly the same, appearance, qualities, or characteristics; resembling; similar to; similar; alike; -- often with in and the particulars of the resemblance; as, they are like each other in features, complexion, and many traits of character. \ (superl.) Equal, or nearly equal, fields of like extent. \ (superl.) Having probability; affording probability; probable; likely. \ (superl.) Inclined toward; disposed to, to feel like taking a walk. \ (n.) That which is equal or similar to another; the counterpart; an exact resemblance; a copy. \ (n.) A liking; a preference; inclination; -- usually in pl., we all have likes and dislikes. \ (a.) In a manner like that of; in a manner similar to, do not act like him. \ (a.) In a like or similar manner. \ (a.) Likely; probably. \ (a.) To suit; to please; to be agreeable to. \ (a.) To be pleased with in a moderate degree; to approve; to take satisfaction in; to enjoy. \ (a.) To liken; to compare. \ (v. i.) To be pleased; to choose. \ (v. i.) To have an appearance or expression; to look; to seem to be (in a specified condition). \ (v. i.) To come near; to avoid with difficulty; to escape narrowly, he liked to have been too late. Cf. Had like, under Like, a. \ (n.) The stroke which equalizes the number of strokes played by the opposing player or side, to play the like.
ins line n. a long, thin mark on a surface; a number of people or things organized; one after another; the edge of an area protected by military forces
ins lion (n.) A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found in Southern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varieties occurring in the different countries. The adult male, in most varieties, has a thick mane of long shaggy hair that adds to his apparent size, which is less than that of the largest tigers. The length, however, is sometimes eleven feet to the base of the tail. The color is a tawny yellow or yellowish brown; the mane is darker, and the terminal tuft of the tail is black. In one variety, called the maneless lion, the male has only a slight mane. \ (n.) A sign and a constellation; Leo. \ (n.) An object of interest and curiosity, especially a person who is so regarded; as, he was quite a lion in London at that time.
ins lip (n.) One of the two fleshy folds which surround the orifice of the mouth in man and many other animals. In man the lips are organs of speech essential to certain articulations. Hence, by a figure they denote the mouth, or all the organs of speech, and sometimes speech itself. \ (n.) An edge of an opening; a thin projecting part of anything; a kind of short open spout; as, the lip of a vessel. \ (n.) The sharp cutting edge on the end of an auger. \ (n.) One of the two opposite divisions of a labiate corolla. \ (n.) The odd and peculiar petal in the Orchis family. See Orchidaceous. \ (n.) One of the edges of the aperture of a univalve shell. \ (v. t.) To touch with the lips; to put the lips to; hence, to kiss. \ (v. t.) To utter; to speak. \ (v. t.) To clip; to trim.
ins list v. to put in writing a number of names of people or things; n. a written series of names or things \ (n.) A line inclosing or forming the extremity of a piece of ground, or field of combat; hence, in the plural (lists), the ground or field inclosed for a race or combat. \ (v. t.) To inclose for combat; as, to list a field. \ (v. i.) To hearken; to attend; to listen. \ (v. t.) To listen or hearken to. \ (v. i.) To desire or choose; to please. \ (v. i.) To lean; to incline, the ship lists to port. \ (n.) Inclination; desire. \ (n.) An inclination to one side, the ship has a list to starboard. \ (n.) A strip forming the woven border or selvedge of cloth, particularly of broadcloth, and serving to strengthen it, a strip of cloth; a fillet. \ (n.) A limit or boundary; a border. \ (n.) The lobe of the ear; the ear itself. \ (n.) A stripe. \ (n.) A roll or catalogue, that is row or line; a record of names, a list of names, books, articles; a list of ratable estate. \ (n.) A little square molding; a fillet; -- called also listel. \ (n.) A narrow strip of wood, esp. sapwood, cut from the edge of a plank or board. \ (n.) A piece of woolen cloth with which the yarns are grasped by a workman. \ (n.) The first thin coat of tin. \ (n.) A wirelike rim of tin left on an edge of the plate after it is coated. \ (v. t.) To sew together, as strips of cloth, so as to make a show of colors, or form a border. \ (v. t.) To cover with list, or with strips of cloth; to put list on, to list a door; to stripe as if with list. \ (v. t.) To enroll; to place or register in a list. \ (v. t.) To engage, as a soldier; to enlist. \ (v. t.) To cut away a narrow strip, as of sapwood, from the edge of, to list a board. \ (v. i.) To engage in public service by enrolling one's name; to enlist. \ (v. t.) To plow and plant with a lister. \ (v. t.) In cotton culture, to prepare, as land, for the crop by making alternating beds and alleys with the hoe.
ins listen v. to try to hear \ (v. i.) To give close attention with the purpose of hearing; to give ear; to hearken; to attend. \ (v. i.) To give heed; to yield to advice; to follow admonition; to obey. \ (v. t.) To attend to.
ins little ad. not tall or big; a small amount \ (a.) Small in size or extent; not big; diminutive; -- opposed to big or large; as, a little body; a little animal; a little piece of ground; a little hill; a little distance; a little child. \ (a.) Short in duration; brief, a little sleep. \ (a.) Small in quantity or amount; not much, a little food; a little air or water. \ (a.) Small in dignity, power, or importance; not great; insignificant; contemptible. \ (a.) Small in force or efficiency; not strong; weak; slight; inconsiderable, little attention or exertion;little effort; little care or diligence. \ (a.) Small in extent of views or sympathies; narrow; shallow; contracted; mean; illiberal; ungenerous. \ (n.) That which is little; a small quantity, amount, space, or the like. \ (n.) A small degree or scale; miniature. \ (adv.) In a small quantity or degree; slightly; somewhat; -- often with a preceding it.
ins live v. to have life; to exist; ad. having life; alive \ (v. i.) To be alive; to have life; to have, as an animal or a plant, the capacity of assimilating matter as food, and to be dependent on such assimilation for a continuance of existence; as, animals and plants that live to a great age are long in reaching maturity. \ (v. i.) To pass one's time; to pass life or time in a certain manner, as to habits, conduct, or circumstances, to live in ease or affluence; to live happily or usefully. \ (v. i.) To make one's abiding place or home; to abide; to dwell; to reside. \ (v. i.) To be or continue in existence; to remain; to be permanent; to last; -- said of inanimate objects, ideas, etc. \ (v. i.) To enjoy or make the most of life; to be in a state of happiness. \ (v. i.) To feed; to subsist; to be nourished or supported; -- with on, horses live on grass and grain. \ (v. i.) To have a spiritual existence; to be quickened, nourished, and actuated by divine influence or faith. \ (v. i.) To be maintained in life; to acquire a livelihood; -- with on or by, to live on spoils. \ (v. i.) To outlast danger; to float; -- said of a ship, boat, etc., no ship could live in such a storm. \ (v. t.) To spend, as one's life; to pass; to maintain; to continue in, constantly or habitually, to live an idle or a useful life. \ (v. t.) To act habitually in conformity with; to practice. \ (a.) Having life; alive; living; not dead. \ (a.) Being in a state of ignition; burning; having active properties, a live coal; live embers. \ (a.) Full of earnestness; active; wide awake; glowing, a live man, or orator. \ (a.) Vivid; bright. \ (a.) Imparting power; having motion, the live spindle of a lathe. \ (n.) Life.
ins long ad. not short; measuring from beginning to end; measuring much; for much time \ (superl.) Drawn out in a line, or in the direction of length; protracted; extended; as, a long line; -- opposed to short, and distinguished from broad or wide. \ (superl.) Drawn out or extended in time; continued through a considerable tine, or to a great length, a long series of events; a long debate; a long drama; a long history; a long book. \ (superl.) Slow in passing; causing weariness by length or duration; lingering, long hours of watching. \ (superl.) Occurring or coming after an extended interval; distant in time; far away. \ (superl.) Extended to any specified measure; of a specified length, a span long; a yard long; a mile long, that is, extended to the measure of a mile, etc. \ (superl.) Far-reaching; extensive. \ (superl.) Prolonged, or relatively more prolonged, in utterance; -- said of vowels and syllables. See Short, a., 13, and Guide to Pronunciation, // 22, 30. \ (n.) A note formerly used in music, one half the length of a large, twice that of a breve. \ (n.) A long sound, syllable, or vowel. \ (n.) The longest dimension; the greatest extent; -- in the phrase, the long and the short of it, the sum and substance of it. \ (adv.) To a great extent in apace, a long drawn out line. \ (adv.) To a great extent in time; during a long time. \ (adv.) At a point of duration far distant, either prior or posterior, not long before; not long after; long before the foundation of Rome; long after the Conquest. \ (adv.) Through the whole extent or duration. \ (adv.) Through an extent of time, more or less; -- only in question, how long will you be gone? \ (prep.) By means of; by the fault of; because of. \ (a.) To feel a strong or morbid desire or craving; to wish for something with eagerness; -- followed by an infinitive, or by after or for. \ (a.) To belong; -- used with to, unto, or for. \ (a.) Having a supply of stocks or goods; prepared for, or depending for a profit upon, advance in prices, long of cotton. Hence, the phrases: to be, or go, long of the market, to be on the long side of the market, to hold products or securities for a rise in price, esp. when bought on a margin.
ins look v. to turn the eyes toward so as to see; to search or hunt for; to seem to be \ (v. i.) To direct the eyes for the purpose of seeing something; to direct the eyes toward an object; to observe with the eyes while keeping them directed; -- with various prepositions, often in a special or figurative sense. See Phrases below. \ (v. i.) To direct the attention (to something); to consider; to examine; as, to look at an action. \ (v. i.) To seem; to appear; to have a particular appearance, the patient looks better; the clouds look rainy. \ (v. i.) To have a particular direction or situation; to face; to front. \ (v. i.) In the imperative: see; behold; take notice; take care; observe; -- used to call attention. \ (v. i.) To show one's self in looking, as by leaning out of a window, look out of the window while I speak to you. Sometimes used figuratively. \ (v. i.) To await the appearance of anything; to expect; to anticipate. \ (v. t.) To look at; to turn the eyes toward. \ (v. t.) To seek; to search for. \ (v. t.) To expect. \ (v. t.) To influence, overawe, or subdue by looks or presence as, to look down opposition. \ (v. t.) To express or manifest by a look. \ (n.) The act of looking; a glance; a sight; a view; -- often in certain phrases, to have, get, take, throw, or cast, a look. \ (n.) Expression of the eyes and face; manner, a proud or defiant look. \ (n.) Hence; Appearance; aspect, the house has a gloomy look; the affair has a bad look.
ins lose v. to have no longer; to not find; to fail to keep; to be defeated \ (v. t.) To part with unintentionally or unwillingly, as by accident, misfortune, negligence, penalty, forfeit, etc.; to be deprived of; as, to lose money from one's purse or pocket, or in business or gaming; to lose an arm or a leg by amputation; to lose men in battle. \ (v. t.) To cease to have; to possess no longer; to suffer diminution of, to lose one's relish for anything; to lose one's health. \ (v. t.) Not to employ; to employ ineffectually; to throw away; to waste; to squander, to lose a day; to lose the benefits of instruction. \ (v. t.) To wander from; to miss, so as not to be able to and; to go astray from, to lose one's way. \ (v. t.) To ruin; to destroy; as destroy, the ship was lost on the ledge. \ (v. t.) To be deprived of the view of; to cease to see or know the whereabouts of, he lost his companion in the crowd. \ (v. t.) To fail to obtain or enjoy; to fail to gain or win; hence, to fail to catch with the mind or senses, I lost a part of what he said. \ (v. t.) To cause to part with; to deprive of. \ (v. t.) To prevent from gaining or obtaining. \ (v. i.) To suffer loss, disadvantage, or defeat; to be worse off, esp. as the result of any kind of contest.
ins love v. to like very much; to feel a strong, kind emotion (sometimes involving sex); n. a strong, kind emotion for someone or something; opposite hate \ (n.) A feeling of strong attachment induced by that which delights or commands admiration; preeminent kindness or devotion to another; affection; tenderness; as, the love of brothers and sisters. \ (n.) Especially, devoted attachment to, or tender or passionate affection for, one of the opposite sex. \ (n.) Courtship; -- chiefly in the phrase to make love, i. e., to court, to woo, to solicit union in marriage. \ (n.) Affection; kind feeling; friendship; strong liking or desire; fondness; good will; -- opposed to hate; often with of and an object. \ (n.) Due gratitude and reverence to God. \ (n.) The object of affection; -- often employed in endearing address. \ (n.) Cupid, the god of love; sometimes, Venus. \ (n.) A thin silk stuff. \ (n.) A climbing species of Clematis (C. Vitalba). \ (n.) Nothing; no points scored on one side; -- used in counting score at tennis, etc. \ (n.) To have a feeling of love for; to regard with affection or good will, to love one's children and friends; to love one's country; to love one's God. \ (n.) To regard with passionate and devoted affection, as that of one sex for the other. \ (n.) To take delight or pleasure in; to have a strong liking or desire for, or interest in; to be pleased with; to like, to love books; to love adventures. \ (v. i.) To have the feeling of love; to be in love.
ins low ad. not high or tall; below the normal height; close to the ground \ strong imp. of Laugh. \ (v. i.) To make the calling sound of cows and other bovine animals; to moo. \ (n.) The calling sound ordinarily made by cows and other bovine animals. \ (n.) A hill; a mound; a grave. \ (n.) Fire; a flame; a light. \ (v. i.) To burn; to blaze. \ (superl.) Occupying an inferior position or place; not high or elevated; depressed in comparison with something else; as, low ground; a low flight. \ (superl.) Not rising to the usual height, a man of low stature; a low fence. \ (superl.) Near the horizon, the sun is low at four o'clock in winter, and six in summer. \ (superl.) Sunk to the farthest ebb of the tide, low tide. \ (superl.) Beneath the usual or remunerative rate or amount, or the ordinary value; moderate; cheap, the low price of corn; low wages. \ (superl.) Not loud, a low voice; a low sound. \ (superl.) Depressed in the scale of sounds; grave, a low pitch; a low note. \ (superl.) Made, as a vowel, with a low position of part of the tongue in relation to the palate, \ (superl.) Near, or not very distant from, the equator, in the low northern latitudes. \ (superl.) Numerically small, a low number. \ (superl.) Wanting strength or animation; depressed; dejected, low spirits; low in spirits. \ (superl.) Depressed in condition; humble in rank, men of low condition; the lower classes. \ (superl.) Mean; vulgar; base; dishonorable, a person of low mind; a low trick or stratagem. \ (superl.) Not elevated or sublime; not exalted or diction, a low comparison. \ (superl.) Submissive; humble. \ (superl.) Deficient in vital energy; feeble; weak, a low pulse; made low by sickness. \ (superl.) Moderate; not intense; not inflammatory, low heat; a low temperature; a low fever. \ (superl.) Smaller than is reasonable or probable, a low estimate. \ (superl.) Not rich, high seasoned, or nourishing; plain; simple, a low diet. \ (n.) The lowest trump, usually the deuce; the lowest trump dealt or drawn. \ (adv.) In a low position or manner; not aloft; not on high; near the ground. \ (adv.) Under the usual price; at a moderate price; cheaply, he sold his wheat low. \ (adv.) In a low mean condition; humbly; meanly. \ (adv.) In time approaching our own. \ (adv.) With a low voice or sound; not loudly; gently, to speak low. \ (adv.) With a low musical pitch or tone. \ (adv.) In subjection, poverty, or disgrace, to be brought low by oppression, by want, or by vice. \ (adv.) In a path near the equator, so that the declination is small, or near the horizon, so that the altitude is small; -- said of the heavenly bodies with reference to the diurnal revolution, the moon runs low, that is, is comparatively near the horizon when on or near the meridian. \ (v. t.) To depress; to lower. / (/m), / (all). See Guide to Pronunciation, // 5, 10, 11.
ins lucky (superl.) Favored by luck; fortunate; meeting with good success or good fortune; -- said of persons; as, a lucky adventurer. \ (superl.) Producing, or resulting in, good by chance, or unexpectedly; favorable; auspicious, a lucky mistake; a lucky cast; a lucky hour.
ins lunch (n.) A luncheon; specifically, a light repast between breakfast and dinner. \ (v. i.) To take luncheon.
ins machine n. a device with moving parts used to do work \ (n.) In general, any combination of bodies so connected that their relative motions are constrained, and by means of which force and motion may be transmitted and modified, as a screw and its nut, or a lever arranged to turn about a fulcrum or a pulley about its pivot, etc.; especially, a construction, more or less complex, consisting of a combination of moving parts, or simple mechanical elements, as wheels, levers, cams, with their supports and connecting framework, calculated to constitute a prime mover, or to receive force and motion from a prime mover or from another machine, and transmit, modify, and apply them to the production of some desired mechanical effect or work, as weaving by a loom, or the excitation of electricity by an electrical machine. \ (n.) Any mechanical contrivance, as the wooden horse with which the Greeks entered Troy; a coach; a bicycle. \ (n.) A person who acts mechanically or at will of another. \ (n.) A combination of persons acting together for a common purpose, with the agencies which they use; as, the social machine. \ (n.) A political organization arranged and controlled by one or more leaders for selfish, private or partisan ends. \ (n.) Supernatural agency in a poem, or a superhuman being introduced to perform some exploit. \ (v. t.) To subject to the action of machinery; to effect by aid of machinery; to print with a printing machine.
ins magazine n. a publication of news, stories, pictures or other information \ (n.) A receptacle in which anything is stored, especially military stores, as ammunition, arms, provisions, etc. \ (n.) The building or room in which the supply of powder is kept in a fortification or a ship. \ (n.) A chamber in a gun for holding a number of cartridges to be fed automatically to the piece. \ (n.) A pamphlet published periodically containing miscellaneous papers or compositions. \ (v. t.) To store in, or as in, a magazine; to store up for use. \ (n.) A country or district especially rich in natural products. \ (n.) A city viewed as a marketing center. \ (n.) A reservoir or supply chamber for a stove, battery, camera, typesetting machine, or other apparatus. \ (n.) A store, or shop, where goods are kept for sale.
ins mail n. letters, papers and other things sent through an official system, such as a post office \ (n.) A spot. \ (n.) A small piece of money; especially, an English silver half-penny of the time of Henry V. \ (n.) Rent; tribute. \ (n.) A flexible fabric made of metal rings interlinked. It was used especially for defensive armor. \ (n.) Hence generally, armor, or any defensive covering. \ (n.) A contrivance of interlinked rings, for rubbing off the loose hemp on lines and white cordage. \ (n.) Any hard protective covering of an animal, as the scales and plates of reptiles, shell of a lobster, etc. \ (v. t.) To arm with mail. \ (v. t.) To pinion. \ (n.) A bag; a wallet. \ (n.) The bag or bags with the letters, papers, or other matter contained therein, conveyed under public authority from one post office to another; the whole system of appliances used by government in the conveyance and delivery of mail matter. \ (n.) That which comes in the mail; letters, etc., received through the post office. \ (n.) A trunk, box, or bag, in which clothing, may be carried. \ (v. t.) To deliver into the custody of the postoffice officials, or place in a government letter box, for transmission by mail; to post; as, to mail a letter.
ins make v. to produce; to create; to build; to do something or to carry out an action; to cause to be or to become \ (n.) A companion; a mate; often, a husband or a wife. \ (v. t.) To cause to exist; to bring into being; to form; to produce; to frame; to fashion; to create. \ (v. t.) To form of materials; to cause to exist in a certain form; to construct; to fabricate. \ (v. t.) To produce, as something artificial, unnatural, or false; -- often with up; as, to make up a story. \ (v. t.) To bring about; to bring forward; to be the cause or agent of; to effect, do, perform, or execute; -- often used with a noun to form a phrase equivalent to the simple verb that corresponds to such noun, to make complaint, for to complain; to make record of, for to record; to make abode, for to abide, etc. \ (v. t.) To execute with the requisite formalities, to make a bill, note, will, deed, etc. \ (v. t.) To gain, as the result of one's efforts; to get, as profit; to make acquisition of; to have accrue or happen to one, to make a large profit; to make an error; to make a loss; to make money. \ (v. t.) To find, as the result of calculation or computation; to ascertain by enumeration; to find the number or amount of, by reckoning, weighing, measurement, and the like, he made the distance of; to travel over, the ship makes ten knots an hour; he made the distance in one day. \ (v. t.) To put a desired or desirable condition; to cause to thrive. \ (v. t.) To cause to be or become; to put into a given state verb, or adjective; to constitute, to make known; to make public; to make fast. \ (v. t.) To cause to appear to be; to constitute subjectively; to esteem, suppose, or represent. \ (v. t.) To require; to constrain; to compel; to force; to cause; to occasion; -- followed by a noun or pronoun and infinitive. \ (v. t.) To become; to be, or to be capable of being, changed or fashioned into; to do the part or office of; to furnish the material for, he will make a good musician; sweet cider makes sour vinegar; wool makes warm clothing. \ (v. t.) To compose, as parts, ingredients, or materials; to amount to. \ (v. t.) To be engaged or concerned in. \ (v. t.) To reach; to attain; to arrive at or in sight of. \ (v. i.) To act in a certain manner; to have to do; to manage; to interfere; to be active; -- often in the phrase to meddle or make. \ (v. i.) To proceed; to tend; to move; to go, he made toward home; the tiger made at the sportsmen. \ (v. i.) To tend; to contribute; to have effect; -- with for or against, it makes for his advantage. \ (v. i.) To increase; to augment; to accrue. \ (v. i.) To compose verses; to write poetry; to versify. \ (n.) Structure, texture, constitution of parts; construction; shape; form.
ins man n. an adult male human \ (n.) A human being; -- opposed tobeast. \ (n.) Especially: An adult male person; a grown-up male person, as distinguished from a woman or a child. \ (n.) The human race; mankind. \ (n.) The male portion of the human race. \ (n.) One possessing in a high degree the distinctive qualities of manhood; one having manly excellence of any kind. \ (n.) An adult male servant; also, a vassal; a subject. \ (n.) A term of familiar address often implying on the part of the speaker some degree of authority, impatience, or haste; as, Come, man, we 've no time to lose! \ (n.) A married man; a husband; -- correlative to wife. \ (n.) One, or any one, indefinitely; -- a modified survival of the Saxon use of man, or mon, as an indefinite pronoun. \ (n.) One of the piece with which certain games, as chess or draughts, are played. \ (v. t.) To supply with men; to furnish with a sufficient force or complement of men, as for management, service, defense, or the like; to guard, to man a ship, boat, or fort. \ (v. t.) To furnish with strength for action; to prepare for efficiency; to fortify. \ (v. t.) To tame, as a hawk. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a servants. \ (v. t.) To wait on as a manservant.
ins many ad. a large number or amount of \ (n.) A retinue of servants; a household. \ (a. \ (a.) The populace; the common people; the majority of people, or of a community. \ (a.) A large or considerable number. / pron.) Consisting of a great number; numerous; not few.
ins map n. a picture of the earth's surface or a part of it \ (n.) A representation of the surface of the earth, or of some portion of it, showing the relative position of the parts represented; -- usually on a flat surface. Also, such a representation of the celestial sphere, or of some part of it. \ (n.) Anything which represents graphically a succession of events, states, or acts; as, an historical map. \ (v. t.) To represent by a map; -- often with out, to survey and map, or map out, a county. Hence, figuratively: To represent or indicate systematically and clearly; to sketch; to plan, to map, a journey; to map out business.
ins market n. a place or area where goods are sold, bought or traded; an economic system in which the prices of things are decided by how many there are and how much money people are willing to pay for them \ (n.) A meeting together of people, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of traffic (as in cattle, provisions, wares, etc.) by private purchase and sale, and not by auction; as, a market is held in the town every week. \ (n.) A public place (as an open space in a town) or a large building, where a market is held; a market place or market house; esp., a place where provisions are sold. \ (n.) An opportunity for selling anything; demand, as shown by price offered or obtainable; a town, region, or country, where the demand exists, to find a market for one's wares; there is no market for woolen cloths in that region; India is a market for English goods. \ (n.) Exchange, or purchase and sale; traffic, a dull market; a slow market. \ (n.) The price for which a thing is sold in a market; market price. Hence: Value; worth. \ (n.) The privelege granted to a town of having a public market. \ (v. i.) To deal in a market; to buy or sell; to make bargains for provisions or goods. \ (v. t.) To expose for sale in a market; to traffic in; to sell in a market, and in an extended sense, to sell in any manner, most of the farmes have marketed their crops.
ins marry v. to join a man and woman together as husband and wife; to become husband and wife (usually in a religious or civil ceremony) \ (v. t.) To unite in wedlock or matrimony; to perform the ceremony of joining, as a man and a woman, for life; to constitute (a man and a woman) husband and wife according to the laws or customs of the place. \ (v. t.) To join according to law, (a man) to a woman as his wife, or (a woman) to a man as her husband. See the Note to def. 4. \ (v. t.) To dispose of in wedlock; to give away as wife. \ (v. t.) To take for husband or wife. See the Note below. \ (v. t.) Figuratively, to unite in the closest and most endearing relation. \ (v. i.) To enter into the conjugal or connubial state; to take a husband or a wife. \ (interj.) Indeed ! in truth ! -- a term of asseveration said to have been derived from the practice of swearing by the Virgin Mary.
ins master (n.) A vessel having (so many) masts; -- used only in compounds; as, a two-master. \ (n.) A male person having another living being so far subject to his will, that he can, in the main, control his or its actions; -- formerly used with much more extensive application than now. (a) The employer of a servant. (b) The owner of a slave. (c) The person to whom an apprentice is articled. (d) A sovereign, prince, or feudal noble; a chief, or one exercising similar authority. (e) The head of a household. (f) The male head of a school or college. (g) A male teacher. (h) The director of a number of persons performing a ceremony or sharing a feast. (i) The owner of a docile brute, -- especially a dog or horse. (j) The controller of a familiar spirit or other supernatural being. \ (n.) One who uses, or controls at will, anything inanimate, to be master of one's time. \ (n.) One who has attained great skill in the use or application of anything, a master of oratorical art. \ (n.) A title given by courtesy, now commonly pronounced mister, except when given to boys; -- sometimes written Mister, but usually abbreviated to Mr. \ (n.) A young gentleman; a lad, or small boy. \ (n.) The commander of a merchant vessel; -- usually called captain. Also, a commissioned officer in the navy ranking next above ensign and below lieutenant; formerly, an officer on a man-of-war who had immediate charge, under the commander, of sailing the vessel. \ (n.) A person holding an office of authority among the Freemasons, esp. the presiding officer; also, a person holding a similar office in other civic societies. \ (v. t.) To become the master of; to subject to one's will, control, or authority; to conquer; to overpower; to subdue. \ (v. t.) To gain the command of, so as to understand or apply; to become an adept in, to master a science. \ (v. t.) To own; to posses. \ (v. i.) To be skillful; to excel.
ins matter n. anything that can be seen or felt; what things are made of \ (n.) That of which anything is composed; constituent substance; material; the material or substantial part of anything; the constituent elements of conception; that into which a notion may be analyzed; the essence; the pith; the embodiment. \ (n.) That of which the sensible universe and all existent bodies are composed; anything which has extension, occupies space, or is perceptible by the senses; body; substance. \ (n.) That with regard to, or about which, anything takes place or is done; the thing aimed at, treated of, or treated; subject of action, discussion, consideration, feeling, complaint, legal action, or the like; theme. \ (n.) That which one has to treat, or with which one has to do; concern; affair; business. \ (n.) Affair worthy of account; thing of consequence; importance; significance; moment; -- chiefly in the phrases what matter ? no matter, and the like. \ (n.) Inducing cause or occasion, especially of anything disagreeable or distressing; difficulty; trouble. \ (n.) Amount; quantity; portion; space; -- often indefinite. \ (n.) Substance excreted from living animal bodies; that which is thrown out or discharged in a tumor, boil, or abscess; pus; purulent substance. \ (n.) That which is permanent, or is supposed to be given, and in or upon which changes are effected by psychological or physical processes and relations; -- opposed to form. \ (n.) Written manuscript, or anything to be set in type; copy; also, type set up and ready to be used, or which has been used, in printing. \ (v. i.) To be of importance; to import; to signify. \ (v. i.) To form pus or matter, as an abscess; to maturate. \ (v. t.) To regard as important; to take account of; to care for. \ be important / It doesn't matter if you can't come here tomorrow. 
ins may v. a word used with an action word to mean permit or possible ("May I go?" "They may leave tomorrow.")
ins me (pron.) One. See Men, pron. \ (pers. pron.) The person speaking, regarded as an object; myself; a pronoun of the first person used as the objective and dative case of the pronoum I; as, he struck me; he gave me the money, or he gave the money to me; he got me a hat, or he got a hat for me.
ins meal n. food eaten to satisfy hunger, such as dinner \ (n.) A part; a fragment; a portion. \ (n.) The portion of food taken at a particular time for the satisfaction of appetite; the quantity usually taken at one time with the purpose of satisfying hunger; a repast; the act or time of eating a meal; as, the traveler has not eaten a good meal for a week; there was silence during the meal. \ (n.) Grain (esp. maize, rye, or oats) that is coarsely ground and unbolted; also, a kind of flour made from beans, pease, etc.; sometimes, any flour, esp. if coarse. \ (n.) Any substance that is coarsely pulverized like meal, but not granulated. \ (v. t.) To sprinkle with, or as with, meal. \ (v. t.) To pulverize, mealed powder.
ins mean v. to want to; to give the idea of; to have the idea of \ (v. t.) To have in the mind, as a purpose, intention, etc.; to intend; to purpose; to design; as, what do you mean to do ? \ (v. t.) To signify; to indicate; to import; to denote. \ (v. i.) To have a purpose or intention. \ (superl.) Destitute of distinction or eminence; common; low; vulgar; humble. \ (superl.) Wanting dignity of mind; low-minded; base; destitute of honor; spiritless, a mean motive. \ (superl.) Of little value or account; worthy of little or no regard; contemptible; despicable. \ (superl.) Of poor quality, mean fare. \ (superl.) Penurious; stingy; close-fisted; illiberal, mean hospitality. \ (a.) Occupying a middle position; middle; being about midway between extremes. \ (a.) Intermediate in excellence of any kind. \ (a.) Average; having an intermediate value between two extremes, or between the several successive values of a variable quantity during one cycle of variation, mean distance; mean motion; mean solar day. \ (n.) That which is mean, or intermediate, between two extremes of place, time, or number; the middle point or place; middle rate or degree; mediocrity; medium; absence of extremes or excess; moderation; measure. \ (n.) A quantity having an intermediate value between several others, from which it is derived, and of which it expresses the resultant value; usually, unless otherwise specified, it is the simple average, formed by adding the quantities together and dividing by their number, which is called an arithmetical mean. A geometrical mean is the square root of the product of the quantities. \ (n.) That through which, or by the help of which, an end is attained; something tending to an object desired; intermediate agency or measure; necessary condition or coagent; instrument. \ (n.) Hence: Resources; property, revenue, or the like, considered as the condition of easy livelihood, or an instrumentality at command for effecting any purpose; disposable force or substance. \ (n.) A part, whether alto or tenor, intermediate between the soprano and base; a middle part. \ (n.) Meantime; meanwhile. \ (n.) A mediator; a go-between.
ins meat n. the part of a dead animal used for food \ (n.) Food, in general; anything eaten for nourishment, either by man or beast. Hence, the edible part of anything; as, the meat of a lobster, a nut, or an egg. \ (n.) The flesh of animals used as food; esp., animal muscle, a breakfast of bread and fruit without meat. \ (n.) Specifically, dinner; the chief meal. \ (v. t.) To supply with food.
ins meet v. to come together with someone or something at the same time and place \ (v. t.) To join, or come in contact with; esp., to come in contact with by approach from an opposite direction; to come upon or against, front to front, as distinguished from contact by following and overtaking. \ (v. t.) To come in collision with; to confront in conflict; to encounter hostilely; as, they met the enemy and defeated them; the ship met opposing winds and currents. \ (v. t.) To come into the presence of without contact; to come close to; to intercept; to come within the perception, influence, or recognition of, to meet a train at a junction; to meet carriages or persons in the street; to meet friends at a party; sweet sounds met the ear. \ (v. t.) To perceive; to come to a knowledge of; to have personal acquaintance with; to experience; to suffer, the eye met a horrid sight; he met his fate. \ (v. t.) To come up to; to be even with; to equal; to match; to satisfy; to ansver, to meet one's expectations; the supply meets the demand. \ (v. t.) To come together by mutual approach, to come in contact, or into proximity, by approach from opposite directions; to join; to come face to face; to come in close relationship, we met in the street; two lines meet so as to form an angle. \ (v. t.) To come together with hostile purpose; to have an encounter or conflict. \ (v. t.) To assemble together; to congregate, Congress meets on the first Monday of December. \ (v. t.) To come together by mutual concessions; hence, to agree; to harmonize; to unite. \ (n.) An assembling together, the assembling of huntsmen for the hunt; also, the persons who so assemble, and the place of meeting. \ (a.) Suitable; fit; proper; appropriate; qualified; convenient. \ (adv.) Meetly.
ins meeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Meet \ (n.) A coming together; an assembling; as, the meeting of Congress. \ (n.) A junction, crossing, or union, the meeting of the roads or of two rivers. \ (n.) A congregation; a collection of people; a convention, a large meeting; an harmonius meeting. \ (n.) An assembly for worship, to attend meeting on Sunday; -- in England, applied distinctively and disparagingly to the worshiping assemblies of Dissenters.
ins member n. one of a group \ (v. t.) To remember; to cause to remember; to mention. \ (n.) A part of an animal capable of performing a distinct office; an organ; a limb. \ (n.) Hence, a part of a whole; an independent constituent of a body \ (n.) A part of a discourse or of a period or sentence; a clause; a part of a verse. \ (n.) Either of the two parts of an algebraic equation, connected by the sign of equality. \ (n.) Any essential part, as a post, tie rod, strut, etc., of a framed structure, as a bridge truss. \ (n.) Any part of a building, whether constructional, as a pier, column, lintel, or the like, or decorative, as a molding, or group of moldings. \ (n.) One of the persons composing a society, community; an individual forming part of an association; as, a member of the society of Friends.
ins memory n. a picture in the mind of past events; the ability to remember; a thing remembered \ (n.) The faculty of the mind by which it retains the knowledge of previous thoughts, impressions, or events. \ (n.) The reach and positiveness with which a person can remember; the strength and trustworthiness of one's power to reach and represent or to recall the past; as, his memory was never wrong. \ (n.) The actual and distinct retention and recognition of past ideas in the mind; remembrance, in memory of youth; memories of foreign lands. \ (n.) The time within which past events can be or are remembered, within the memory of man. \ (n.) Something, or an aggregate of things, remembered; hence, character, conduct, etc., as preserved in remembrance, history, or tradition; posthumous fame, the war became only a memory. \ (n.) A memorial.
ins men (pl. ) of Man \ (n.) pl. of Man. \ (pron.) A man; one; -- used with a verb in the singular, and corresponding to the present indefinite one or they. \ (pl. ) of Keelman
ins meter (n.) One who, or that which, metes or measures. See Coal-meter. \ (n.) An instrument for measuring, and usually for recording automatically, the quantity measured. \ (n.) A line above or below a hanging net, to which the net is attached in order to strengthen it. \ (n.) Alt. of Metre
ins middle n. the center; a place or time of equal distance from both sides or ends; ad. in the center \ (a.) Equally distant from the extreme either of a number of things or of one thing; mean; medial; as, the middle house in a row; a middle rank or station in life; flowers of middle summer; men of middle age. \ (a.) Intermediate; intervening. \ (a.) The point or part equally distant from the extremities or exterior limits, as of a line, a surface, or a solid; an intervening point or part in space, time, or order of series; the midst; central portion \ (a.) the waist.
ins midnight (n.) The middle of the night; twelve o'clock at night. \ (a.) Being in, or characteristic of, the middle of the night; as, midnight studies; midnight gloom.
ins mile (n.) A certain measure of distance, being equivalent in England and the United States to 320 poles or rods, or 5,280 feet.
ins milk n. the white liquid produced by female animals to feed their young \ (n.) A white fluid secreted by the mammary glands of female mammals for the nourishment of their young, consisting of minute globules of fat suspended in a solution of casein, albumin, milk sugar, and inorganic salts. \ (n.) A kind of juice or sap, usually white in color, found in certain plants; latex. See Latex. \ (n.) An emulsion made by bruising seeds; as, the milk of almonds, produced by pounding almonds with sugar and water. \ (n.) The ripe, undischarged spat of an oyster. \ (v. t.) To draw or press milk from the breasts or udder of, by the hand or mouth; to withdraw the milk of. \ (v. t.) To draw from the breasts or udder; to extract, as milk, to milk wholesome milk from healthy cows. \ (v. t.) To draw anything from, as if by milking; to compel to yield profit or advantage; to plunder. \ (v. i.) To draw or to yield milk. \ (v. i.) To draw or to yield milk. \ (v. i.) To give off small gas bubbles during the final part of the charging operation; -- said of a storage battery.
ins mind n. the thinking, feeling part of a person \ (v.) The intellectual or rational faculty in man; the understanding; the intellect; the power that conceives, judges, or reasons; also, the entire spiritual nature; the soul; -- often in distinction from the body. \ (v.) The state, at any given time, of the faculties of thinking, willing, choosing, and the like; psychical activity or state; as: (a) Opinion; judgment; belief. \ (v.) Choice; inclination; liking; intent; will. \ (v.) Courage; spirit. \ (v.) Memory; remembrance; recollection; as, to have or keep in mind, to call to mind, to put in mind, etc. \ (n.) To fix the mind or thoughts on; to regard with attention; to treat as of consequence; to consider; to heed; to mark; to note. \ (n.) To occupy one's self with; to employ one's self about; to attend to, to mind one's business. \ (n.) To obey, to mind parents; the dog minds his master. \ (n.) To have in mind; to purpose. \ (n.) To put in mind; to remind. \ (v. i.) To give attention or heed; to obey, the dog minds well.
ins mine v. to dig useful or valuable substances out of the earth; n. a place in the earth where such substances are found; a bomb placed under the ground or under water so it cannot be seen \ (n.) See Mien. \ (pron. & a.) Belonging to me; my. Used as a pronominal to me; my. Used as a pronominal adjective in the predicate; as, "Vengeance is mine; I will repay." Rom. xii. 19. Also, in the old style, used attributively, instead of my, before a noun beginning with a vowel. \ (v. i.) To dig a mine or pit in the earth; to get ore, metals, coal, or precious stones, out of the earth; to dig in the earth for minerals; to dig a passage or cavity under anything in order to overthrow it by explosives or otherwise. \ (v. i.) To form subterraneous tunnel or hole; to form a burrow or lodge in the earth, the mining cony. \ (v. t.) To dig away, or otherwise remove, the substratum or foundation of; to lay a mine under; to sap; to undermine; hence, to ruin or destroy by slow degrees or secret means. \ (v. t.) To dig into, for ore or metal. \ (v. t.) To get, as metals, out of the earth by digging. \ (v. i.) A subterranean cavity or passage \ (v. i.) A pit or excavation in the earth, from which metallic ores, precious stones, or other mineral substances are taken by digging; -- distinguished from the pits from which stones for architectural purposes are taken, and which are called quarries. \ (v. i.) A cavity or tunnel made under a fortification or other work, for the purpose of blowing up the superstructure with some explosive agent. \ (v. i.) Any place where ore, or precious stones are got by digging or washing the soil, a placer mine. \ (v. i.) Fig.: A rich source of wealth or other good.
ins minute n. a measure of time; one of the sixty equal parts of an hour; sixty seconds \ (n.) The sixtieth part of an hour; sixty seconds. (Abbrev. m.; as, 4 h. 30 m.) \ (n.) The sixtieth part of a degree; sixty seconds (Marked thus ('); as, 10 20'). \ (n.) A nautical or a geographic mile. \ (n.) A coin; a half farthing. \ (n.) A very small part of anything, or anything very small; a jot; a tittle. \ (n.) A point of time; a moment. \ (n.) The memorandum; a record; a note to preserve the memory of anything; as, to take minutes of a contract; to take minutes of a conversation or debate. \ (n.) A fixed part of a module. See Module. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a minute or minutes; occurring at or marking successive minutes. \ (p. pr. & vb. n.) To set down a short sketch or note of; to jot down; to make a minute or a brief summary of. \ (a.) Very small; little; tiny; fine; slight; slender; inconsiderable. \ (a.) Attentive to small things; paying attention to details; critical; particular; precise, a minute observer; minute observation.
ins mirror (n.) A looking-glass or a speculum; any glass or polished substance that forms images by the reflection of rays of light. \ (n.) That which gives a true representation, or in which a true image may be seen; hence, a pattern; an exemplar. \ (n.) See Speculum. \ (v. t.) To reflect, as in a mirror.
ins miss v. to fail to hit, see, reach or meet
ins mistake n. a wrong action or decision; an action done without the knowledge that it was wrong \ (v. t.) To make or form amiss; to spoil in making. \ (v. t.) To take or choose wrongly. \ (v. t.) To take in a wrong sense; to misunderstand misapprehend, or misconceive; as, to mistake a remark; to mistake one's meaning. \ (v. t.) To substitute in thought or perception, to mistake one person for another. \ (v. t.) To have a wrong idea of in respect of character, qualities, etc.; to misjudge. \ (v. i.) To err in knowledge, perception, opinion, or judgment; to commit an unintentional error. \ (n.) An apprehending wrongly; a misconception; a misunderstanding; a fault in opinion or judgment; an unintentional error of conduct. \ (n.) Misconception, error, which when non-negligent may be ground for rescinding a contract, or for refusing to perform it.
ins money n. pieces of metal or paper used to pay for things \ (n.) A piece of metal, as gold, silver, copper, etc., coined, or stamped, and issued by the sovereign authority as a medium of exchange in financial transactions between citizens and with government; also, any number of such pieces; coin. \ (n.) Any written or stamped promise, certificate, or order, as a government note, a bank note, a certificate of deposit, which is payable in standard coined money and is lawfully current in lieu of it; in a comprehensive sense, any currency usually and lawfully employed in buying and selling. \ (n.) In general, wealth; property; as, he has much money in land, or in stocks; to make, or lose, money. \ (v. t.) To supply with money. \ Silver coins or money of the nominal value of 1d., 2d., 3d., and 4d., struck annually for the Maundy alms.
ins monkey (n.) In the most general sense, any one of the Quadrumana, including apes, baboons, and lemurs. \ (n.) Any species of Quadrumana, except the lemurs. \ (n.) Any one of numerous species of Quadrumana (esp. such as have a long tail and prehensile feet) exclusive of apes and baboons. \ (n.) A term of disapproval, ridicule, or contempt, as for a mischievous child. \ (n.) The weight or hammer of a pile driver, that is, a very heavy mass of iron, which, being raised on high, falls on the head of the pile, and drives it into the earth; the falling weight of a drop hammer used in forging. \ (n.) A small trading vessel of the sixteenth century. \ (v. t. & i.) To act or treat as a monkey does; to ape; to act in a grotesque or meddlesome manner.
ins month n. one of the twelve periods of time into which a year is divided \ (n.) One of the twelve portions into which the year is divided; the twelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of a synodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name. In popular use, a period of four weeks is often called a month.
ins moon n. the bright object often seen in the night sky that orbits the earth about every twenty-nine days \ (n.) The celestial orb which revolves round the earth; the satellite of the earth; a secondary planet, whose light, borrowed from the sun, is reflected to the earth, and serves to dispel the darkness of night. The diameter of the moon is 2,160 miles, its mean distance from the earth is 240,000 miles, and its mass is one eightieth that of the earth. See Lunar month, under Month. \ (n.) A secondary planet, or satellite, revolving about any member of the solar system; as, the moons of Jupiter or Saturn. \ (n.) The time occupied by the moon in making one revolution in her orbit; a month. \ (n.) A crescentlike outwork. See Half-moon. \ (v. t.) To expose to the rays of the moon. \ (v. i.) To act if moonstruck; to wander or gaze about in an abstracted manner.
ins more ad. greater in size or amount \ (n.) A hill. \ (n.) A root. \ (superl.) Greater; superior; increased \ (superl.) Greater in quality, amount, degree, quality, and the like; with the singular. \ (superl.) Greater in number; exceeding in numbers; -- with the plural. \ (superl.) Additional; other; as, he wept because there were no more words to conquer. \ (n.) A greater quantity, or number; that which exceeds or surpasses in any way what it is compared with. \ (n.) That which is in addition; something other and further; an additional or greater amount. \ (adv.) In a greater quantity; in or to a greater extent or degree. \ (adv.) With a verb or participle. \ (adv.) With an adjective or adverb (instead of the suffix -er) to form the comparative degree, more durable; more active; more sweetly. \ (adv.) In addition; further; besides; again. \ (v. t.) To make more; to increase.
ins morning n. the early part of the day, from sunrise until noon \ (a.) Pertaining to the first part or early part of the day; being in the early part of the day; as, morning dew; morning light; morning service.
ins most ad. greatest in size or amount \ (a.) Consisting of the greatest number or quantity; greater in number or quantity than all the rest; nearly all. \ (a.) Greatest in degree; as, he has the most need of it. \ (a.) Highest in rank; greatest. \ (a.) In the greatest or highest degree.
ins mother n. the female parent; a woman who has a child or children \ (n.) A female parent; especially, one of the human race; a woman who has borne a child. \ (n.) That which has produced or nurtured anything; source of birth or origin; generatrix. \ (n.) An old woman or matron. \ (n.) The female superior or head of a religious house, as an abbess, etc. \ (n.) Hysterical passion; hysteria. \ (a.) Received by birth or from ancestors; native, natural; as, mother language; also acting the part, or having the place of a mother; producing others; originating. \ (v. t.) To adopt as a son or daughter; to perform the duties of a mother to. \ (n.) A film or membrane which is developed on the surface of fermented alcoholic liquids, such as vinegar, wine, etc., and acts as a means of conveying the oxygen of the air to the alcohol and other combustible principles of the liquid, thus leading to their oxidation. \ (v. i.) To become like, or full of, mother, or thick matter, as vinegar.
ins mountain n. a part of the earth's surface that rises high above the area around it \ (n.) A large mass of earth and rock, rising above the common level of the earth or adjacent land; earth and rock forming an isolated peak or a ridge; an eminence higher than a hill; a mount. \ (n.) A range, chain, or group of such elevations; as, the White Mountains. \ (n.) A mountainlike mass; something of great bulk. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a mountain or mountains; growing or living on a mountain; found on or peculiar to mountains; among mountains, a mountain torrent; mountain pines; mountain goats; mountain air; mountain howitzer. \ (a.) Like a mountain; mountainous; vast; very great.
ins mouse (n.) Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the genus Mus and various related genera of the family Muridae. The common house mouse (Mus musculus) is found in nearly all countries. The American white-footed, or deer, mouse (Hesperomys leucopus) sometimes lives in houses. See Dormouse, Meadow mouse, under Meadow, and Harvest mouse, under Harvest. \ (n.) A knob made on a rope with spun yarn or parceling to prevent a running eye from slipping. \ (n.) Same as 2d Mousing, 2. \ (n.) A familiar term of endearment. \ (n.) A dark-colored swelling caused by a blow. \ (n.) A match used in firing guns or blasting. \ (v. i.) To watch for and catch mice. \ (v. i.) To watch for or pursue anything in a sly manner; to pry about, on the lookout for something. \ (v. t.) To tear, as a cat devours a mouse. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a mouse; to secure by means of a mousing. See Mouse, n., 2.
ins mouth (n.) The opening through which an animal receives food; the aperture between the jaws or between the lips; also, the cavity, containing the tongue and teeth, between the lips and the pharynx; the buccal cavity. \ (n.) An opening affording entrance or exit; orifice; aperture; \ (n.) The opening of a vessel by which it is filled or emptied, charged or discharged; as, the mouth of a jar or pitcher; the mouth of the lacteal vessels, etc. \ (n.) The opening or entrance of any cavity, as a cave, pit, well, or den. \ (n.) The opening of a piece of ordnance, through which it is discharged. \ (n.) The opening through which the waters of a river or any stream are discharged. \ (n.) The entrance into a harbor. \ (n.) The crosspiece of a bridle bit, which enters the mouth of an animal. \ (n.) A principal speaker; one who utters the common opinion; a mouthpiece. \ (n.) Cry; voice. \ (n.) Speech; language; testimony. \ (n.) A wry face; a grimace; a mow. \ (v. t.) To take into the mouth; to seize or grind with the mouth or teeth; to chew; to devour. \ (v. t.) To utter with a voice affectedly big or swelling; to speak in a strained or unnaturally sonorous manner. \ (v. t.) To form or cleanse with the mouth; to lick, as a bear her cub. \ (v. t.) To make mouths at. \ (v. i.) To speak with a full, round, or loud, affected voice; to vociferate; to rant. \ (v. i.) To put mouth to mouth; to kiss. \ (v. i.) To make grimaces, esp. in ridicule or contempt.
ins move v. to change position; to put or keep in motion; to go \ (v. t.) To cause to change place or posture in any manner; to set in motion; to carry, convey, draw, or push from one place to another; to impel; to stir; as, the wind moves a vessel; the horse moves a carriage. \ (v. t.) To transfer (a piece or man) from one space or position to another, according to the rules of the game, to move a king. \ (v. t.) To excite to action by the presentation of motives; to rouse by representation, persuasion, or appeal; to influence. \ (v. t.) To arouse the feelings or passions of; especially, to excite to tenderness or compassion; to touch pathetically; to excite, as an emotion. \ (v. t.) To propose; to recommend; specifically, to propose formally for consideration and determination, in a deliberative assembly; to submit, as a resolution to be adopted, to move to adjourn. \ (v. t.) To apply to, as for aid. \ (v. i.) To change place or posture; to go, in any manner, from one place or position to another, a ship moves rapidly. \ (v. i.) To act; to take action; to begin to act, to move in a matter. \ (v. i.) To change residence; to remove, as from one house, town, or state, to another. \ (v. i.) To change the place of a piece in accordance with the rules of the game. \ (n.) The act of moving; a movement. \ (n.) The act of moving one of the pieces, from one position to another, in the progress of the game. \ (n.) An act for the attainment of an object; a step in the execution of a plan or purpose.
ins movie n. a motion picture; a film \ (n.) A moving picture or a moving picture show; -- commonly used in pl.
ins much ad. great in amount \ (Compar. & superl. wanting, but supplied by) Great in quantity; long in duration; as, much rain has fallen; much time. \ (Compar. & superl. wanting, but supplied by) Many in number. \ (Compar. & superl. wanting, but supplied by) High in rank or position. \ (n.) A great quantity; a great deal; also, an indefinite quantity, you have as much as I. \ (n.) A thing uncommon, wonderful, or noticeable; something considerable. \ (a.) To a great degree or extent; greatly; abundantly; far; nearly.
ins museum (n.) A repository or a collection of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities, or of works of art.
ins music n. the making of sounds by singing or using a musical instrument \ (n.) The science and the art of tones, or musical sounds, i. e., sounds of higher or lower pitch, begotten of uniform and synchronous vibrations, as of a string at various degrees of tension; the science of harmonical tones which treats of the principles of harmony, or the properties, dependences, and relations of tones to each other; the art of combining tones in a manner to please the ear. \ (n.) Melody; a rhythmical and otherwise agreeable succession of tones. \ (n.) Harmony; an accordant combination of simultaneous tones. \ (n.) The written and printed notation of a musical composition; the score. \ (n.) Love of music; capacity of enjoying music. \ (n.) A more or less musical sound made by many of the lower animals. See Stridulation.
ins musician (n.) One skilled in the art or science of music; esp., a skilled singer, or performer on a musical instrument.
ins must v. a word used with an action word to mean necessary ("You must go to school.") \ (v. i. \ (v. i. \ (n.) The expressed juice of the grape, or other fruit, before fermentation. \ (n.) Mustiness. \ (v. t. & i.) To make musty; to become musty. \ (n.) Being in a condition of dangerous frenzy, usually connected with sexual excitement; -- said of adult male elephants which become so at irregular intervals. \ (n.) The condition of frenzy. \ (n.) An elephant in must. / auxiliary) To be obliged; to be necessitated; -- expressing either physical or moral necessity; as, a man must eat for nourishment; we must submit to the laws. / auxiliary) To be morally required; to be necessary or essential to a certain quality, character, end, or result; as, he must reconsider the matter; he must have been insane.
ins my (a.) Of or belonging to me; -- used always attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate, the book is mine. See Mine.
ins nail (n.) the horny scale of plate of epidermis at the end of the fingers and toes of man and many apes. \ (n.) The basal thickened portion of the anterior wings of certain hemiptera. \ (n.) The terminal horny plate on the beak of ducks, and other allied birds. \ (n.) A slender, pointed piece of metal, usually with a head, used for fastening pieces of wood or other material together, by being driven into or through them. \ (a.) A measure of length, being two inches and a quarter, or the sixteenth of a yard. \ (n.) To fasten with a nail or nails; to close up or secure by means of nails; as, to nail boards to the beams. \ (n.) To stud or boss with nails, or as with nails. \ (n.) To fasten, as with a nail; to bind or hold, as to a bargain or to acquiescence in an argument or assertion; hence, to catch; to trap. \ (n.) To spike, as a cannon.
ins name v. to appoint; to nominate; to give a name to; n. a word by which a person, animal or thing is known or called \ (n.) The title by which any person or thing is known or designated; a distinctive specific appellation, whether of an individual or a class. \ (n.) A descriptive or qualifying appellation given to a person or thing, on account of a character or acts. \ (n.) Reputed character; reputation, good or bad; estimation; fame; especially, illustrious character or fame; honorable estimation; distinction. \ (n.) Those of a certain name; a race; a family. \ (n.) A person, an individual. \ (n.) To give a distinctive name or appellation to; to entitle; to denominate; to style; to call. \ (n.) To mention by name; to utter or publish the name of; to refer to by distinctive title; to mention. \ (n.) To designate by name or specifically for any purpose; to specify; to appoint; as, to name a day for the wedding. \ (n.) To designate (a member) by name, as the Speaker does by way of reprimand.
ins narrow ad. limited in size or amount; not wide; having a short distance from one side to the other \ (superl.) Of little breadth; not wide or broad; having little distance from side to side; as, a narrow board; a narrow street; a narrow hem. \ (superl.) Of little extent; very limited; circumscribed. \ (superl.) Having but a little margin; having barely sufficient space, time, or number, etc.; close; near; -- with special reference to some peril or misfortune, a narrow shot; a narrow escape; a narrow majority. \ (superl.) Limited as to means; straitened; pinching, narrow circumstances. \ (superl.) Contracted; of limited scope; illiberal; bigoted, a narrow mind; narrow views. \ (superl.) Parsimonious; niggardly; covetous; selfish. \ (superl.) Scrutinizing in detail; accurate; exact. \ (superl.) Formed (as a vowel) by a close position of some part of the tongue in relation to the palate; or (according to Bell) by a tense condition of the pharynx; -- distinguished from wide; as e (eve) and \ (n.) A narrow passage; esp., a contracted part of a stream, lake, or sea; a strait connecting two bodies of water; -- usually in the plural, The Narrows of New York harbor. \ (v. t.) To lessen the breadth of; to contract; to draw into a smaller compass; to reduce the width or extent of. \ (v. t.) To contract the reach or sphere of; to make less liberal or more selfish; to limit; to confine; to restrict, to narrow one's views or knowledge; to narrow a question in discussion. \ (v. t.) To contract the size of, as a stocking, by taking two stitches into one. \ (v. i.) To become less broad; to become narrower, the sea narrows into a strait. \ (v. i.) Not to step out enough to the one hand or the other, a horse narrows. \ (v. i.) To contract the size of a stocking or other knit article, by taking two stitches into one. / (f/d), etc., from i (ill) and / (f/t), etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 13.
ins natural ad. of or about nature; normal; common to its kind \ (a.) Fixed or determined by nature; pertaining to the constitution of a thing; belonging to native character; according to nature; essential; characteristic; not artifical, foreign, assumed, put on, or acquired; as, the natural growth of animals or plants; the natural motion of a gravitating body; natural strength or disposition; the natural heat of the body; natural color. \ (a.) Conformed to the order, laws, or actual facts, of nature; consonant to the methods of nature; according to the stated course of things, or in accordance with the laws which govern events, feelings, etc.; not exceptional or violent; legitimate; regular, the natural consequence of crime; a natural death. \ (a.) Having to do with existing system to things; dealing with, or derived from, the creation, or the world of matter and mind, as known by man; within the scope of human reason or experience; not supernatural, a natural law; natural science; history, theology. \ (a.) Conformed to truth or reality \ (a.) Springing from true sentiment; not artifical or exaggerated; -- said of action, delivery, a natural gesture, tone, etc. \ (a.) Resembling the object imitated; true to nature; according to the life; -- said of anything copied or imitated, a portrait is natural. \ (a.) Having the character or sentiments properly belonging to one's position; not unnatural in feelings. \ (a.) Connected by the ties of consanguinity. \ (a.) Begotten without the sanction of law; born out of wedlock; illegitimate; bastard, a natural child. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the lower or animal nature, as contrasted with the higher or moral powers, or that which is spiritual; being in a state of nature; unregenerate. \ (a.) Belonging to, to be taken in, or referred to, some system, in which the base is 1; -- said or certain functions or numbers, natural numbers, those commencing at 1; natural sines, cosines, those taken in arcs whose radii are 1. \ (a.) Produced by natural organs, as those of the human throat, in distinction from instrumental music. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a key which has neither a flat nor a sharp for its signature, as the key of C major. \ (a.) Applied to an air or modulation of harmony which moves by easy and smooth transitions, digressing but little from the original key. \ (n.) A native; an aboriginal. \ (n.) Natural gifts, impulses, etc. \ (n.) One born without the usual powers of reason or understanding; an idiot. \ (n.) A character [/] used to contradict, or to remove the effect of, a sharp or flat which has preceded it, and to restore the unaltered note.
ins near ad. not far; close to \ (adv.) At a little distance, in place, time, manner, or degree; not remote; nigh. \ (adv.) Nearly; almost; well-nigh. \ (adv.) Closely; intimately. \ (adv.) Not far distant in time, place; close at hand; adjacent; neighboring; nigh. \ (adv.) Closely connected or related. \ (adv.) Close to one's interests, affection, etc.; touching, or affecting intimately; intimate; dear; as, a near friend. \ (adv.) Close to anything followed or imitated; not free, loose, or rambling, a version near to the original. \ (adv.) So as barely to avoid or pass injury or loss; close; narrow, a near escape. \ (adv.) Next to the driver, when he is on foot; in the Unted States, on the left of an animal or a team, the near ox; the near leg. See Off side, under Off, a. \ (a) Immediate; direct; short. \ (a) Close-fisted; parsimonious. \ (prep.) Adjacent to; close by; not far from; nigh, the ship sailed near the land. See the Note under near, a. \ (adv.) To approach; to come nearer, the ship neared the land. \ (v. i.) To draw near; to approach.
ins necessary ad. needed to get a result or effect; required \ (a.) Such as must be; impossible to be otherwise; not to be avoided; inevitable. \ (a.) Impossible to be otherwise, or to be dispensed with, without preventing the attainment of a desired result; indispensable; requiste; essential. \ (a.) Acting from necessity or compulsion; involuntary; -- opposed to free; as, whether man is a necessary or a free agent is a question much discussed. \ (n.) A thing that is necessary or indispensable to some purpose; something that one can not do without; a requisite; an essential; -- used chiefly in the plural, the necessaries of life. \ (n.) A privy; a water-closet. \ (n.) Such things, in respect to infants, lunatics, and married women, as are requisite for support suitable to station.
ins neck (n.) The part of an animal which connects the head and the trunk, and which, in man and many other animals, is more slender than the trunk. \ (n.) Any part of an inanimate object corresponding to or resembling the neck of an animal \ (n.) The long slender part of a vessel, as a retort, or of a fruit, as a gourd. \ (n.) A long narrow tract of land projecting from the main body, or a narrow tract connecting two larger tracts. \ (n.) That part of a violin, guitar, or similar instrument, which extends from the head to the body, and on which is the finger board or fret board. \ (n.) A reduction in size near the end of an object, formed by a groove around it; as, a neck forming the journal of a shaft. \ (n.) the point where the base of the stem of a plant arises from the root. \ (v. t.) To reduce the diameter of (an object) near its end, by making a groove around it; -- used with down, to neck down a shaft. \ (v. t. & i.) To kiss and caress amorously.
ins need v. to require; to want; to be necessary to have or to do \ (n.) A state that requires supply or relief; pressing occasion for something; necessity; urgent want. \ (n.) Want of the means of subsistence; poverty; indigence; destitution. \ (n.) That which is needful; anything necessary to be done; (pl.) necessary things; business. \ (n.) Situation of need; peril; danger. \ (n.) To be in want of; to have cause or occasion for; to lack; to require, as supply or relief. \ (v. i.) To be wanted; to be necessary. \ (adv.) Of necessity. See Needs.
ins neighbor (n.) A person who lives near another; one whose abode is not far off. \ (n.) One who is near in sympathy or confidence. \ (n.) One entitled to, or exhibiting, neighborly kindness; hence, one of the human race; a fellow being. \ (a.) Near to another; adjoining; adjacent; next; neighboring. \ (v. i.) To dwell in the vicinity; to be a neighbor, or in the neighborhood; to be near. \ (v. t.) To adjoin; to border on; tobe near to. \ (v. t.) To associate intimately with.
ins never ad. at no time; not ever \ (adv.) Not ever; not at any time; at no time, whether past, present, or future. \ (adv.) In no degree; not in the least; not.
ins new ad. not existing before; not known before; recently made, built, bought or grown; another; different \ (superl.) Having existed, or having been made, but a short time; having originated or occured lately; having recently come into existence, or into one's possession; not early or long in being; of late origin; recent; fresh; modern; -- opposed to old, as, a new coat; a new house; a new book; a new fashion. \ (superl.) Not before seen or known, although existing before; lately manifested; recently discovered, a new metal; a new planet; new scenes. \ (superl.) Newly beginning or recurring; starting anew; now commencing; different from has been, a new year; a new course or direction. \ (superl.) As if lately begun or made; having the state or quality of original freshness; also, changed for the better; renovated; unworn; untried; unspent, rest and travel made him a new man. \ (superl.) Not of ancient extraction, or of a family of ancient descent; not previously kniwn or famous. \ (superl.) Not habituated; not familiar; unaccustomed. \ (superl.) Fresh from anything; newly come. \ (adv.) Newly; recently. \ (v. t. & i.) To make new; to renew.
ins news n. information about any recent events, especially as reported by the media \ (n) A report of recent occurences; information of something that has lately taken place, or of something before unknown; fresh tindings; recent intelligence. \ (n) Something strange or newly happened. \ (n) A bearer of news; a courier; a newspaper.
ins newspaper (n.) A sheet of paper printed and distributed, at stated intervals, for conveying intelligence of passing events, advocating opinions, etc.; a public print that circulates news, advertisements, proceedings of legislative bodies, public announcements
ins next ad. coming immediately after; nearest \ (superl.) Nearest in place; having no similar object intervening. \ (superl.) Nearest in time; as, the next day or hour. \ (superl.) Adjoining in a series; immediately preceding or following in order. \ (superl.) Nearest in degree, quality, rank, right, or relation, the next heir was an infant. \ (adv.) In the time, place, or order nearest or immediately suceeding, this man follows next.
ins nice ad. pleasing; good; kind \ (superl.) Foolish; silly; simple; ignorant; also, weak; effeminate. \ (superl.) Of trifling moment; nimportant; trivial. \ (superl.) Overscrupulous or exacting; hard to please or satisfy; fastidious in small matters. \ (superl.) Delicate; refined; dainty; pure. \ (superl.) Apprehending slight differences or delicate distinctions; distinguishing accurately or minutely; carefully discriminating; as, a nice taste or judgment. \ (superl.) Done or made with careful labor; suited to excite admiration on account of exactness; evidencing great skill; exact; fine; finished, nice proportions, nice workmanship, a nice application; exactly or fastidiously discriminated; requiring close discrimination, a nice point of law, a nice distinction in philosophy. \ (superl.) Pleasing; agreeable; gratifying; delightful, a nice party; a nice excursion; a nice person; a nice day; a nice sauce, etc.
ins night n. the time between when the sun goes down and when it rises, when there is little or no light \ (n.) That part of the natural day when the sun is beneath the horizon, or the time from sunset to sunrise; esp., the time between dusk and dawn, when there is no light of the sun, but only moonlight, starlight, or artificial light. \ (n.) Darkness; obscurity; concealment. \ (n.) Intellectual and moral darkness; ignorance. \ (n.) A state of affliction; adversity; as, a dreary night of sorrow. \ (n.) The period after the close of life; death. \ (n.) A lifeless or unenlivened period, as when nature seems to sleep.
ins nine (a.) Eight and one more; one less than ten; as, nine miles. \ (n.) The number greater than eight by a unit; nine units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing nine units, as 9 or ix.
ins nineteen (a.) Nine and ten; eighteen and one more; one less than twenty; as, nineteen months. \ (n.) The number greater than eighteen by a unit; the sum of ten and nine; nineteen units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol for nineteen units, as 19 or xix.
ins ninety (a.) Nine times ten; eighty-nine and one more; as, ninety men. \ (n.) The sum of nine times ten; the number greater by a unit than eighty-nine; ninety units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing ninety units, as 90 or xc.
ins no ad. used to reject or to refuse; not any; not at all \ (a.) Not any; not one; none. \ (adv.) Nay; not; not at all; not in any respect or degree; -- a word expressing negation, denial, or refusal. Before or after another negative, no is emphatic. \ (n.) A refusal by use of the wordd no; a denial. \ (n.) A negative vote; one who votes in the negative; as, to call for the ayes and noes; the noes have it.
ins nobody (n.) No person; no one; not anybody. \ (n.) A person of no influence or importance; an insignificant or contemptible person.
ins noise n. sound, especially when loud \ (n.) Sound of any kind. \ (n.) Especially, loud, confused, or senseless sound; clamor; din. \ (n.) Loud or continuous talk; general talk or discussion; rumor; report. \ (n.) Music, in general; a concert; also, a company of musicians; a band. \ (v. i.) To sound; to make a noise. \ (v. t.) To spread by rumor or report. \ (v. t.) To disturb with noise.
ins none (a.) No one; not one; not anything; -- frequently used also partitively, or as a plural, not any. \ (a.) No; not any; -- used adjectively before a vowel, in old style; as, thou shalt have none assurance of thy life. \ (n.) Same as Nones, 2.
ins noon n. the middle of the day; twelve o'clock in the daytime \ (a.) No. See the Note under No. \ (n.) The middle of the day; midday; the time when the sun is in the meridian; twelve o'clock in the daytime. \ (n.) Hence, the highest point; culmination. \ (a.) Belonging to midday; occurring at midday; meridional. \ (v. i.) To take rest and refreshment at noon.
ins north n. the direction to the left of a person facing the rising sun \ (n.) That one of the four cardinal points of the compass, at any place, which lies in the direction of the true meridian, and to the left hand of a person facing the east; the direction opposite to the south. \ (n.) Any country or region situated farther to the north than another; the northern section of a country. \ (n.) Specifically: That part of the United States lying north of Mason and Dixon's line. See under Line. \ (a.) Lying toward the north; situated at the north, or in a northern direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the north, or coming from the north. \ (v. i.) To turn or move toward the north; to veer from the east or west toward the north. \ (adv.) Northward.
ins nose (n.) The prominent part of the face or anterior extremity of the head containing the nostrils and olfactory cavities; the olfactory organ. See Nostril, and Olfactory organ under Olfactory. \ (n.) The power of smelling; hence, scent. \ (n.) A projecting end or beak at the front of an object; a snout; a nozzle; a spout; as, the nose of a bellows; the nose of a teakettle. \ (v. t.) To smell; to scent, to track, or trace out. \ (v. t.) To touch with the nose; to push the nose into or against, to interfere with; to treat insolently. \ (v. t.) To utter in a nasal manner; to pronounce with a nasal twang, to nose a prayer. \ (v. i.) To smell; to sniff; to scent. \ (v. i.) To pry officiously into what does not concern one. \ (v. t.) To confront; be closely face to face or opposite to; meet. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a nose, to nose a stair tread. \ (v. t.) To examine with the nose or sense of smell. \ (v. t.) To make by advancing the nose or front end, the train nosed its way into the statio; \ (v. t.) to beat by (the length of) a nose. \ (v. i.) To push or move with the nose or front forward.
ins not ad. a word showing that something is denied or untrue ("She is not going.") \ Wot not; know not; knows not. \ (a.) Shorn; shaven. \ (adv.) A word used to express negation, prohibition, denial, or refusal.
ins note v. to talk about something already known; n. a word or words written to help a person remember; a short letter \ (v. t.) To butt; to push with the horns. \ Know not; knows not. \ (n.) Nut. \ (n.) Need; needful business. \ (n.) A mark or token by which a thing may be known; a visible sign; a character; a distinctive mark or feature; a characteristic quality. \ (n.) A mark, or sign, made to call attention, to point out something to notice, or the like; a sign, or token, proving or giving evidence. \ (n.) A brief remark; a marginal comment or explanation; hence, an annotation on a text or author; a comment; a critical, explanatory, or illustrative observation. \ (n.) A brief writing intended to assist the memory; a memorandum; a minute. \ (n.) Hence, a writing intended to be used in speaking; memoranda to assist a speaker, being either a synopsis, or the full text of what is to be said; as, to preach from notes; also, a reporter's memoranda; the original report of a speech or of proceedings. \ (n.) A short informal letter; a billet. \ (n.) A diplomatic missive or written communication. \ (n.) A written or printed paper acknowledging a debt, and promising payment, a promissory note; a note of hand; a negotiable note. \ (n.) A list of items or of charges; an account. \ (n.) A character, variously formed, to indicate the length of a tone, and variously placed upon the staff to indicate its pitch. Hence: \ (n.) A musical sound; a tone; an utterance; a tune. \ (n.) A key of the piano or organ. \ (n.) Observation; notice; heed. \ (n.) Notification; information; intelligence. \ (n.) State of being under observation. \ (n.) Reputation; distinction, a poet of note. \ (n.) Stigma; brand; reproach. \ (n.) To notice with care; to observe; to remark; to heed; to attend to. \ (n.) To record in writing; to make a memorandum of. \ (n.) To charge, as with crime (with of or for before the thing charged); to brand. \ (n.) To denote; to designate. \ (n.) To annotate. \ (n.) To set down in musical characters.
ins notebook (n.) A book in which notes or memorandums are written. \ (n.) A book in which notes of hand are registered.
ins nothing n. not anything; no thing \ (n.) Not anything; no thing (in the widest sense of the word thing); -- opposed to anything and something. \ (n.) Nonexistence; nonentity; absence of being; nihility; nothingness. \ (n.) A thing of no account, value, or note; something irrelevant and impertinent; something of comparative unimportance; utter insignificance; a trifle. \ (n.) A cipher; naught. \ (adv.) In no degree; not at all; in no wise.
ins now ad. at this time; immediately \ (adv.) At the present time; at this moment; at the time of speaking; instantly; as, I will write now. \ (adv.) Very lately; not long ago. \ (adv.) At a time contemporaneous with something spoken of or contemplated; at a particular time referred to. \ (adv.) In present circumstances; things being as they are; -- hence, used as a connective particle, to introduce an inference or an explanation. \ (a.) Existing at the present time; present. \ (n.) The present time or moment; the present.
ins number n. a word or sign used to show the order or amount of things \ (n.) That which admits of being counted or reckoned; a unit, or an aggregate of units; a numerable aggregate or collection of individuals; an assemblage made up of distinct things expressible by figures. \ (n.) A collection of many individuals; a numerous assemblage; a multitude; many. \ (n.) A numeral; a word or character denoting a number; as, to put a number on a door. \ (n.) Numerousness; multitude. \ (n.) The state or quality of being numerable or countable. \ (n.) Quantity, regarded as made up of an aggregate of separate things. \ (n.) That which is regulated by count; poetic measure, as divisions of time or number of syllables; hence, poetry, verse; -- chiefly used in the plural. \ (n.) The distinction of objects, as one, or more than one (in some languages, as one, or two, or more than two), expressed (usually) by a difference in the form of a word; thus, the singular number and the plural number are the names of the forms of a word indicating the objects denoted or referred to by the word as one, or as more than one. \ (n.) The measure of the relation between quantities or things of the same kind; that abstract species of quantity which is capable of being expressed by figures; numerical value. \ (n.) To count; to reckon; to ascertain the units of; to enumerate. \ (n.) To reckon as one of a collection or multitude. \ (n.) To give or apply a number or numbers to; to assign the place of in a series by order of number; to designate the place of by a number or numeral, to number the houses in a street, or the apartments in a building. \ (n.) To amount; to equal in number; to contain; to consist of, the army numbers fifty thousand.
ins nurse (n.) One who nourishes; a person who supplies food, tends, or brings up; as: (a) A woman who has the care of young children; especially, one who suckles an infant not her own. (b) A person, especially a woman, who has the care of the sick or infirm. \ (n.) One who, or that which, brings up, rears, causes to grow, trains, fosters, or the like. \ (n.) A lieutenant or first officer, who is the real commander when the captain is unfit for his place. \ (n.) A peculiar larva of certain trematodes which produces cercariae by asexual reproduction. See Cercaria, and Redia. \ (n.) Either one of the nurse sharks. \ (v. t.) To nourish; to cherish; to foster \ (v. t.) To nourish at the breast; to suckle; to feed and tend, as an infant. \ (v. t.) To take care of or tend, as a sick person or an invalid; to attend upon. \ (v. t.) To bring up; to raise, by care, from a weak or invalid condition; to foster; -- applied to plants, animals, and to any object that needs, or thrives by, attention. \ (v. t.) To manage with care and economy, with a view to increase; as, to nurse our national resources. \ (v. t.) To caress; to fondle, as a nurse does.
ins of prep. made from; belonging to; about; connected to; included among \ (prep.) In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as: \ (prep.) Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. \ (prep.) Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. \ (prep.) Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it contains, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water. \ (prep.) Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. \ (prep.) Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. \ (prep.) Denoting reference to a thing, to boast of one's achievements. \ (prep.) Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time. \ (prep.) Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba. \ (prep.) Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. \ (prep.) Denoting relation to place or time, or connected with, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod. \ (prep.) Denoting passage from one state to another; from. \ (prep.) During; in the course of.
ins off ad. away; at a distance; condition when something is no longer operating or continuing; not on; not connected \ (adv.) In a general sense, denoting from or away from; as: \ (adv.) Denoting distance or separation; as, the house is a mile off. \ (adv.) Denoting the action of removing or separating; separation, to take off the hat or cloak; to cut off, to pare off, to clip off, to peel off, to tear off, to march off, to fly off, and the like. \ (adv.) Denoting a leaving, abandonment, departure, abatement, interruption, or remission, the fever goes off; the pain goes off; the game is off; all bets are off. \ (adv.) Denoting a different direction; not on or towards: away, to look off. \ (adv.) Denoting opposition or negation. \ (interj.) Away; begone; -- a command to depart. \ (prep.) Not on; away from, to be off one's legs or off the bed; two miles off the shore. \ (a.) On the farther side; most distant; on the side of an animal or a team farthest from the driver when he is on foot; in the United States, the right side, the off horse or ox in a team, in distinction from the nigh or near horse or ox; the off leg. \ (a.) Designating a time when one is not strictly attentive to business or affairs, or is absent from his post, and, hence, a time when affairs are not urgent, he took an off day for fishing: an off year in politics. \ (n.) The side of the field that is on the right of the wicket keeper.
ins office n. a room or building where business or work is done; a public position to which one is elected or appointed \ (n.) That which a person does, either voluntarily or by appointment, for, or with reference to, others; customary duty, or a duty that arises from the relations of man to man; as, kind offices, pious offices. \ (n.) A special duty, trust, charge, or position, conferred by authority and for a public purpose; a position of trust or authority, an executive or judical office; a municipal office. \ (n.) A charge or trust, of a sacred nature, conferred by God himself, the office of a priest under the old dispensation, and that of the apostles in the new. \ (n.) That which is performed, intended, or assigned to be done, by a particular thing, or that which anything is fitted to perform; a function; -- answering to duty in intelligent beings. \ (n.) The place where a particular kind of business or service for others is transacted; a house or apartment in which public officers and others transact business, the register's office; a lawyer's office. \ (n.) The company or corporation, or persons collectively, whose place of business is in an office, I have notified the office. \ (n.) The apartments or outhouses in which the domestics discharge the duties attached to the service of a house, as kitchens, pantries, stables, etc. \ (n.) Any service other than that of ordination and the Mass; any prescribed religious service. \ (v. t.) To perform, as the duties of an office; to discharge.
ins often ad. many times \ (adv.) Frequently; many times; not seldom. \ (a.) Frequent; common; repeated.
ins oh (interj.) An exclamation expressing various emotions, according to the tone and manner, especially surprise, pain, sorrow, anxiety, or a wish. See the Note under O.
ins oil n. a thick liquid that does not mix with water and that burns easily; a black liquid taken from the ground and used as fuel \ (n.) Any one of a great variety of unctuous combustible substances, not miscible with water; as, olive oil, whale oil, rock oil, etc. They are of animal, vegetable, or mineral origin and of varied composition, and they are variously used for food, for solvents, for anointing, lubrication, illumination, etc. By extension, any substance of an oily consistency, oil of vitriol. \ (v. t.) To smear or rub over with oil; to lubricate with oil; to anoint with oil.
ins old ad. not young or new; having lived or existed for many years \ (n.) Open country. \ (superl.) Not young; advanced far in years or life; having lived till toward the end of the ordinary term of living; as, an old man; an old age; an old horse; an old tree. \ (superl.) Not new or fresh; not recently made or produced; having existed for a long time, old wine; an old friendship. \ (superl.) Formerly existing; ancient; not modern; preceding; original, an old law; an old custom; an old promise. \ (superl.) Continued in life; advanced in the course of existence; having (a certain) length of existence; -- designating the age of a person or thing, an infant a few hours old; a cathedral centuries old. \ (superl.) Long practiced; hence, skilled; experienced; cunning, an old offender; old in vice. \ (superl.) Long cultivated, an old farm; old land, as opposed to new land, that is, to land lately cleared. \ (superl.) Worn out; weakened or exhausted by use; past usefulness, old shoes; old clothes. \ (superl.) More than enough; abundant. \ (superl.) Aged; antiquated, wanting in the mental vigor or other qualities belonging to youth; -- used disparagingly as a term of reproach. \ (superl.) Old-fashioned; wonted; customary; as of old, the good old times, colloquially, gay; jolly. \ (superl.) Used colloquially as a term of cordiality and familiarity.
ins on prep. above and held up by; touching the upper surface of ("The book is on the table."); supported by ("He is on his feet."); about ("The report on the meeting is ready."); at the time of ("He left on Wednesday.")
ins once ad. one time only \ (adv.) By limitation to the number one; for one time; not twice nor any number of times more than one. \ (adv.) At some one period of time; -- used indefinitely. \ (adv.) At any one time; -- often nearly equivalent to ever, if ever, or whenever; as, once kindled, it may not be quenched.
ins one (a.) Being a single unit, or entire being or thing, and no more; not multifold; single; individual. \ (a.) Denoting a person or thing conceived or spoken of indefinitely; a certain. "I am the sister of one Claudio" [Shak.], that is, of a certain man named Claudio. \ (a.) Pointing out a contrast, or denoting a particular thing or person different from some other specified; -- used as a correlative adjective, with or without the. \ (a.) Closely bound together; undivided; united; constituting a whole. \ (a.) Single in kind; the same; a common. \ (a.) Single; inmarried. \ (n.) A single unit; as, one is the base of all numbers. \ (n.) A symbol representing a unit, as 1, or i. \ (n.) A single person or thing. \ (indef. pron.) Any person, indefinitely; a person or body, what one would have well done, one should do one's self. \ (v. t.) To cause to become one; to gather into a single whole; to unite; to assimilite.
ins only ad. being the single one or ones; no more than ("We have only two dollars.") \ (a.) One alone; single; as, the only man present; his only occupation. \ (a.) Alone in its class; by itself; not associated with others of the same class or kind, an only child. \ (a.) Hence, figuratively: Alone, by reason of superiority; preeminent; chief. \ (a.) In one manner or degree; for one purpose alone; simply; merely; barely. \ (a.) So and no otherwise; no other than; exclusively; solely; wholly. \ (a.) Singly; without more, only-begotten. \ (a.) Above all others; particularly. \ (conj.) Save or except (that); -- an adversative used elliptically with or without that, and properly introducing a single fact or consideration.
ins open v. to start ("They opened talks."); ad. not closed; not secret \ (a.) Free of access; not shut up; not closed; affording unobstructed ingress or egress; not impeding or preventing passage; not locked up or covered over; -- applied to passageways; as, an open door, window, road, etc.; also, to inclosed structures or objects, open houses, boxes, baskets, bottles, to means of communication or approach by water or land, an open harbor or roadstead. \ (a.) Free to be used, enjoyed, visited, or the like; not private; public; unrestricted in use, an open library, museum, court, or other assembly; liable to the approach, trespass, or attack of any one; unprotected; exposed. \ (a.) Free or cleared of obstruction to progress or to view; accessible, an open tract; the open sea. \ (a.) Not drawn together, closed, or contracted; extended; expanded, an open hand; open arms; an open flower; an open prospect. \ (a.) Without reserve or false pretense; sincere; characterized by sincerity; unfeigned; frank, generous; liberal; bounteous; -- applied to personal appearance, or character, and to the expression of thought and feeling, etc. \ (a.) Not concealed or secret; not hidden or disguised; exposed to view or to knowledge; revealed; apparent, open schemes or plans; open shame or guilt. \ (a.) Not of a quality to prevent communication, as by closing water ways, blocking roads; hence, not frosty or inclement; mild; -- used of the weather or the climate, an open season; an open winter. \ (a.) Not settled or adjusted; not decided or determined; not closed or withdrawn from consideration, an open account; an open question; to keep an offer or opportunity open. \ (a.) Free; disengaged; unappropriated, to keep a day open for any purpose; to be open for an engagement. \ (a.) Uttered with a relatively wide opening of the articulating organs; -- said of vowels, the an far is open as compared with the a in say. \ (a.) Uttered, as a consonant, with the oral passage simply narrowed without closure, as in uttering s. \ (a.) Not closed or stopped with the finger; -- said of the string of an instrument, as of a violin, when it is allowed to vibrate throughout its whole length. \ (a.) Produced by an open string, an open tone. \ (n.) Open or unobstructed space; clear land, without trees or obstructions; open ocean; open water. \ (v. t.) To make or set open; to render free of access; to unclose; to unbar; to unlock; to remove any fastening or covering from, to open a door; to open a box; to open a room; to open a letter. \ (v. t.) To spread; to expand, to open the hand. \ (v. t.) To disclose; to reveal; to interpret; to explain. \ (v. t.) To make known; to discover, to render available or accessible for settlements, trade, etc. \ (v. t.) To enter upon; to begin, to open a discussion; to open fire upon an enemy; to open trade, or correspondence; to open a case in court, or a meeting. \ (v. t.) To loosen or make less compact, to open matted cotton by separating the fibers.
ins or conj. giving another of two choices; giving the last of several choices \ (conj.) A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both. It corresponds to either. You may ride either to London or to Windsor. It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. \ (prep. & adv.) Ere; before; sooner than. \ (n.) Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots.
ins orange (n.) The fruit of a tree of the genus Citrus (C. Aurantium). It is usually round, and consists of pulpy carpels, commonly ten in number, inclosed in a leathery rind, which is easily separable, and is reddish yellow when ripe. \ (n.) The tree that bears oranges; the orange tree. \ (n.) The color of an orange; reddish yellow. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to an orange; of the color of an orange; reddish yellow; as, an orange ribbon.
ins order v. to give a command; to tell someone what to do; n. a command; the correct or normal way things are organized; a peaceful situation in which people obey laws
ins other ad. different; of another kind; the remaining one or ones of two or more ("That man is short; the other is tall.") \ (conj.) Either; -- used with other or or for its correlative (as either . . . or are now used). \ (pron. & a.) Different from that which, or the one who, has been specified; not the same; not identical; additional; second of two. \ (pron. & a.) Not this, but the contrary; opposite; as, the other side of a river. \ (pron. & a.) Alternate; second; -- used esp. in connection with every, every other day, that is, each alternate day, every second day. \ (pron. & a.) Left, as opposed to right. \ (adv.) Otherwise.
ins our ad. of or belonging to us \ (pl. ) of I \ (possessive pron.) Of or pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our country; our rights; our troops; our endeavors. See I.
ins ours (pl. ) of I \ (possessive pron.) See Note under Our.
ins out ad. away from the inside; opposite of in \ (a.) In its original and strict sense, out means from the interior of something; beyond the limits or boundary of somethings; in a position or relation which is exterior to something; -- opposed to in or into. The something may be expressed after of, from, etc. (see Out of, below); or, if not expressed, it is implied; as, he is out, he is out of the house, office, business, etc.; he came out, he came out from the ship, meeting, sect, party \ (a.) Away; abroad; off; from home, or from a certain, or a usual, place; not in; not in a particular, the proprietor is out, his team was taken out. \ (a.) Beyond the limits of concealment, confinement, privacy, constraint, actual of figurative; hence, not in concealment, in, or into, a state of freedom, openness, disclosure, publicity, the sun shines out; he laughed out, to be out at the elbows; the secret has leaked out, or is out; the disease broke out on his face; the book is out. \ (a.) Beyond the limit of existence, continuance, or supply; to the end; completely, a condition of extinction, exhaustion, completion, the fuel, or the fire, has burned out. \ (a.) Beyond possession, control, or occupation, a state of want, loss, or deprivation; -- used of office, property, knowledge, the Democrats went out and the Whigs came in; he put his money out at interest. \ (a.) Beyond the bounds of what is true, reasonable, correct, proper, common; in error or mistake; in a wrong or incorrect position or opinion; in a state of disagreement, opposition; in an inharmonious relation. \ (a.) Not in the position to score in playing a game; not in the state or turn of the play for counting or gaining scores. \ (n.) One who, or that which, is out; especially, one who is out of office; -- generally in the plural. \ (n.) A place or space outside of something; a nook or corner; an angle projecting outward; an open space; -- chiefly used in the phrase ins and outs, the ins and outs of a question. See under In. \ (n.) A word or words omitted by the compositor in setting up copy; an omission. \ (v. t.) To cause to be out; to eject; to expel. \ (v. t.) To come out with; to make known. \ (v. t.) To give out; to dispose of; to sell. \ (v. i.) To come or go out; to get out or away; to become public. \ (interj.) Expressing impatience, anger, a desire to be rid of; -- with the force of command; go out; begone; away; off.
ins outside (n.) The external part of a thing; the part, end, or side which forms the surface; that which appears, or is manifest; that which is superficial; the exterior. \ (n.) The part or space which lies without an inclosure; the outer side, as of a door, walk, or boundary. \ (n.) The furthest limit, as to number, quantity, extent, etc.; the utmost; as, it may last a week at the outside. \ (n.) One who, or that which, is without; hence, an outside passenger, as distinguished from one who is inside. See Inside, n. 3. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the outside; external; exterior; superficial. \ (a.) Reaching the extreme or farthest limit, as to extent, an outside estimate. \ (adv.) or prep. On or to the outside (of); without; on the exterior, to ride outside the coach; he stayed outside.
ins over conj. above; covering; across, in or on every part of ("all over the world") \ (prep.) Above, or higher than, in place or position, with the idea of covering; -- opposed to under; as, clouds are over our heads; the smoke rises over the city. \ (prep.) Across; from side to side of; -- implying a passing or moving, either above the substance or thing, or on the surface of it, a dog leaps over a stream or a table. \ (prep.) Upon the surface of, or the whole surface of; hither and thither upon; throughout the whole extent of, to wander over the earth; to walk over a field, or over a city. \ (prep.) Above; -- implying superiority in excellence, dignity, condition, or value, the advantages which the Christian world has over the heathen. \ (prep.) Above in authority or station; -- implying government, direction, care, attention, guard, responsibility, etc.; -- opposed to under. \ (prep.) Across or during the time of; from beginning to end of, to keep anything over night; to keep corn over winter. \ (prep.) Above the perpendicular height or length of, with an idea of measurement, the water, or the depth of water, was over his head, over his shoes. \ (prep.) Beyond; in excess of; in addition to; more than, it cost over five dollars. \ (prep.) Above, implying superiority after a contest; in spite of; notwithstanding, he triumphed over difficulties; the bill was passed over the veto. \ (adv.) From one side to another; from side to side; crosswise, a board, or a tree, a foot over, i. e., a foot in diameter. \ (adv.) From one person or place to another regarded as on the opposite side of a space or barrier; -- used with verbs of motion, to sail over to England; to hand over the money; to go over to the enemy. \ (adv.) Also, with verbs of being: At, or on, the opposite side, the boat is over. \ (adv.) From beginning to end; throughout the course, extent, or expanse of anything, to look over accounts, or a stock of goods; a dress covered over with jewels. \ (adv.) From inside to outside, above or across the brim. \ (adv.) Beyond a limit; hence, in excessive degree or quantity; superfluously; with repetition, to do the whole work over. \ (adv.) In a manner to bring the under side to or towards the top, to turn (one's self) over; to roll a stone over; to turn over the leaves; to tip over a cart. \ (adv.) At an end; beyond the limit of continuance; completed; finished. \ (a.) Upper; higher; superior; also, excessive; too much or too great; -- chiefly used in composition, overshoes, overcoat, over-garment, overlord, overwork, overhaste. \ (n.) A certain number of balls (usually four) delivered successively from behind one wicket, after which the ball is bowled from behind the other wicket as many times, the fielders changing places.
ins page (n.) A serving boy; formerly, a youth attending a person of high degree, especially at courts, as a position of honor and education; now commonly, in England, a youth employed for doing errands, waiting on the door, and similar service in households; in the United States, a boy employed to wait upon the members of a legislative body. \ (n.) A boy child. \ (n.) A contrivance, as a band, pin, snap, or the like, to hold the skirt of a woman's dress from the ground. \ (n.) A track along which pallets carrying newly molded bricks are conveyed to the hack. \ (n.) Any one of several species of beautiful South American moths of the genus Urania. \ (v. t.) To attend (one) as a page. \ (n.) One side of a leaf of a book or manuscript. \ (n.) Fig.: A record; a writing; as, the page of history. \ (n.) The type set up for printing a page. \ (v. t.) To mark or number the pages of, as a book or manuscript; to furnish with folios.
ins paint v. to cover with a liquid color; to make a picture with liquid colors; n. a colored liquid used to cover or protect a surface \ (v. t.) To cover with coloring matter; to apply paint to; as, to paint a house, a signboard, etc. \ (v. t.) Fig.: To color, stain, or tinge; to adorn or beautify with colors; to diversify with colors. \ (v. t.) To form in colors a figure or likeness of on a flat surface, as upon canvas; to represent by means of colors or hues; to exhibit in a tinted image; to portray with paints, to paint a portrait or a landscape. \ (v. t.) Fig.: To represent or exhibit to the mind; to describe vividly; to delineate; to image; to depict. \ (v. t.) To practice the art of painting, the artist paints well. \ (v. t.) To color one's face by way of beautifying it. \ (n.) A pigment or coloring substance. \ (n.) The same prepared with a vehicle, as oil, water with gum, or the like, for application to a surface. \ (n.) A cosmetic; rouge.
ins pair (n.) A number of things resembling one another, or belonging together; a set; as, a pair or flight of stairs. "A pair of beads." Chaucer. Beau. & Fl. "Four pair of stairs." Macaulay. [Now mostly or quite disused, except as to stairs.] \ (n.) Two things of a kind, similar in form, suited to each other, and intended to be used together, a pair of gloves or stockings; a pair of shoes. \ (n.) Two of a sort; a span; a yoke; a couple; a brace, a pair of horses; a pair of oxen. \ (n.) A married couple; a man and wife. \ (n.) A single thing, composed of two pieces fitted to each other and used together, a pair of scissors; a pair of tongs; a pair of bellows. \ (n.) Two members of opposite parties or opinion, as in a parliamentary body, who mutually agree not to vote on a given question, or on issues of a party nature during a specified time, there were two pairs on the final vote. \ (n.) In a mechanism, two elements, or bodies, which are so applied to each other as to mutually constrain relative motion. \ (v. i.) To be joined in paris; to couple; to mate, as for breeding. \ (v. i.) To suit; to fit, as a counterpart. \ (v. i.) Same as To pair off. See phrase below. \ (v. t.) To unite in couples; to form a pair of; to bring together, as things which belong together, or which complement, or are adapted to one another. \ (v. t.) To engage (one's self) with another of opposite opinions not to vote on a particular question or class of questions. \ (v. t.) To impair. \ A union of two conductors, as bars or wires of dissimilar metals joined at their extremities, for producing a thermoelectric current.
ins paper n. a thin, flat material made from plants or cloth often used for writing \ (n.) A substance in the form of thin sheets or leaves intended to be written or printed on, or to be used in wrapping. It is made of rags, straw, bark, wood, or other fibrous material, which is first reduced to pulp, then molded, pressed, and dried. \ (n.) A sheet, leaf, or piece of such substance. \ (n.) A printed or written instrument; a document, essay, or the like; a writing; as, a paper read before a scientific society. \ (n.) A printed sheet appearing periodically; a newspaper; a journal, a daily paper. \ (n.) Negotiable evidences of indebtedness; notes; bills of exchange, and the like, the bank holds a large amount of his paper. \ (n.) Decorated hangings or coverings for walls, made of paper. See Paper hangings, below. \ (n.) A paper containing (usually) a definite quantity, a paper of pins, tacks, opium, etc. \ (n.) A medicinal preparation spread upon paper, intended for external application, cantharides paper. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to paper; made of paper; resembling paper; existing only on paper; unsubstantial, a paper box; a paper army. \ (v. t.) To cover with paper; to furnish with paper hangings, to paper a room or a house. \ (v. t.) To fold or inclose in paper. \ (v. t.) To put on paper; to make a memorandum of. \ Cloth or paper covered with powdered carborundum.
ins parent n. a father or mother \ (n.) One who begets, or brings forth, offspring; a father or a mother. \ (n.) That which produces; cause; source; author; begetter; as, idleness is the parent of vice.
ins park (n.) A piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant. \ (n.) A tract of ground kept in its natural state, about or adjacent to a residence, as for the preservation of game, for walking, riding, or the like. \ (n.) A piece of ground, in or near a city or town, inclosed and kept for ornament and recreation; as, Hyde Park in London; Central Park in New York. \ (n.) A space occupied by the animals, wagons, pontoons, and materials of all kinds, as ammunition, ordnance stores, hospital stores, provisions, etc., when brought together; also, the objects themselves, a park of wagons; a park of artillery. \ (n.) A partially inclosed basin in which oysters are grown. \ (v. t.) To inclose in a park, or as in a park. \ (v. t.) To bring together in a park, or compact body, to park the artillery, the wagons, etc. \ (n.) Any place where vehicles are assembled according to a definite arrangement, the vehicles. \ (v. t.) To bring together in a park, to park artillery, automobiles, etc. \ (v. t.) In oyster culture, to inclose in a park. \ (v. i.) To promenade or drive in a park, of horses, to display style or gait on a park drive.
ins part n. something less than the whole; not all of something \ (n.) One of the portions, equal or unequal, into which anything is divided, or regarded as divided; something less than a whole; a number, quantity, mass, or the like, regarded as going to make up, with others, a larger number, etc., whether actually separate or not; a piece; a fragment; a fraction; a division; a member; a constituent. \ (n.) An equal constituent portion; one of several or many like quantities, numbers, or of which it is composed; proportional division or ingredient. \ (n.) A constituent portion of a living or spiritual whole; an organ; an essential element. \ (n.) A constituent of character or capacity; quality; faculty; talent; -- usually in the plural with a collective sense. \ (n.) Quarter; region; district; -- usually in the plural. \ (n.) Such portion of any quantity, as when taken a certain number of times, will exactly make that quantity; as, 3 is a part of 12; -- the opposite of multiple. Also, a line or other element of a geometrical figure. \ (n.) That which belongs to one, or which is assumed by one, or which falls to one, in a division or apportionment; share; portion; lot; interest; concern; duty; office. \ (n.) One of the opposing parties or sides in a conflict or a controversy; a faction. \ (n.) A particular character in a drama or a play; an assumed personification; also, the language, actions, and influence of a character or an actor in a play; or, figuratively, in real life. See To act a part, under Act. \ (n.) One of the different melodies of a concerted composition, which heard in union compose its harmony, the music for each voice or instrument, the treble, tenor, or bass part; the violin part, etc. \ (n.) To divide; to separate into distinct parts; to break into two or more parts or pieces; to sever. \ (n.) To divide into shares; to divide and distribute; to allot; to apportion; to share. \ (n.) To separate or disunite; to cause to go apart; to remove from contact or contiguity; to sunder. \ (n.) Hence: To hold apart; to stand between; to intervene betwixt, as combatants. \ (n.) To separate by a process of extraction, elimination, or secretion, to part gold from silver. \ (n.) To leave; to quit. \ (v. i.) To be broken or divided into parts or pieces; to break; to become separated; to go asunder, rope parts; his hair parts in the middle. \ (v. i.) To go away; to depart; to take leave; to quit each other; hence, to die; -- often with from. \ (v. i.) To perform an act of parting; to relinquish a connection of any kind; -- followed by with or from. \ (v. i.) To have a part or share; to partake. \ (adv.) Partly; in a measure.
ins party n. a group of people working together for a political purpose; a group of people or friends gathered together for enjoyment \ (v.) A part or portion. \ (v.) A number of persons united in opinion or action, as distinguished from, or opposed to, the rest of a community or association; esp., one of the parts into which a people is divided on questions of public policy. \ (v.) A part of a larger body of company; a detachment; especially (Mil.), a small body of troops dispatched on special service. \ (v.) A number of persons invited to a social entertainment; a select company; as, a dinner party; also, the entertainment itself, to give a party. \ (v.) One concerned or interested in an affair; one who takes part with others; a participator, he was a party to the plot; a party to the contract. \ (v.) The plaintiff or the defendant in a lawsuit, whether an individual, a firm, or corporation; a litigant. \ (v.) Hence, any certain person who is regarded as being opposed or antagonistic to another. \ (v.) Cause; side; interest. \ (v.) A person, he is a queer party. \ (v.) Parted or divided, as in the direction or form of one of the ordinaries, an escutcheon party per pale. \ (v.) Partial; favoring one party. \ (adv.) Partly.
ins pass v. to go by or move around something; to move along; to cause or permit to go
ins past n. the time gone by; the time before; ad. recent; immediately before; former \ (v.) Of or pertaining to a former time or state; neither present nor future; gone by; elapsed; ended; spent; as, past troubles; past offences. \ (n.) A former time or state; a state of things gone by. \ (prep.) Beyond, in position, or degree; further than; beyond the reach or influence of. \ (prep.) Beyond, in time; after, past the hour. \ (prep.) Above; exceeding; more than. \ (adv.) By; beyond, he ran past.
ins pay v. to give money for work done or for something bought \ (v. t.) To cover, as bottom of a vessel, a seam, a spar, etc., with tar or pitch, or waterproof composition of tallow, resin; to smear. \ (v. t.) To satisfy, or content; specifically, to satisfy (another person) for service rendered, property delivered; to discharge one's obligation to; to make due return to; to compensate; to remunerate; to recompense; to requite; as, to pay workmen or servants. \ (v. t.) Hence, figuratively: To compensate justly; to requite according to merit; to reward; to punish; to retort or retaliate upon. \ (v. t.) To discharge, as a debt, demand, or obligation, by giving or doing what is due or required; to deliver the amount or value of to the person to whom it is owing; to discharge a debt by delivering (money owed). \ (v. t.) To discharge or fulfill, as a duy; to perform or render duty, as that which has been promised. \ (v. t.) To give or offer, without an implied obligation, to pay attention; to pay a visit. \ (v. i.) To give a recompense; to make payment, requital, or satisfaction; to discharge a debt. \ (v. i.) Hence, to make or secure suitable return for expense or trouble; to be remunerative or profitable; to be worth the effort or pains required, it will pay to ride; it will pay to wait; politeness always pays. \ (n.) Satisfaction; content. \ (n.) An equivalent or return for money due, goods purchased, or services performed; salary or wages for work or service; compensation; recompense; payment; hire, the pay of a clerk; the pay of a soldier.
ins pen (n.) A feather. \ (n.) A wing. \ (n.) An instrument used for writing with ink, formerly made of a reed, or of the quill of a goose or other bird, but now also of other materials, as of steel, gold, etc. Also, originally, a stylus or other instrument for scratching or graving. \ (n.) Fig.: A writer, or his style; as, he has a sharp pen. \ (n.) The internal shell of a squid. \ (n.) A female swan. \ (v. t.) To write; to compose and commit to paper; to indite; to compose, to pen a sonnet. \ (n. & v.) To shut up, as in a pen or cage; to confine in a small inclosure or narrow space; to coop up, or shut in; to inclose. \ (n.) A small inclosure, a pen for sheep or for pigs.
ins pencil (n.) A small, fine brush of hair or bristles used by painters for laying on colors. \ (n.) A slender cylinder or strip of black lead, colored chalk, slate etc., or such a cylinder or strip inserted in a small wooden rod intended to be pointed, or in a case, which forms a handle, -- used for drawing or writing. See Graphite. \ (n.) Hence, figuratively, an artist's ability or peculiar manner; also, in general, the act or occupation of the artist, descriptive writer, etc. \ (n.) An aggregate or collection of rays of light, especially when diverging from, or converging to, a point. \ (n.) A number of lines that intersect in one point, the point of intersection being called the pencil point. \ (n.) A small medicated bougie. \ (v. t.) To write or mark with a pencil; to paint or to draw.
ins people n. any group of persons; all the persons of a group, race, religion or nation ("the American people") \ (n.) The body of persons who compose a community, tribe, nation, or race; an aggregate of individuals forming a whole; a community; a nation. \ (n.) Persons, generally; an indefinite number of men and women; folks; population, or part of population; as, country people; -- sometimes used as an indefinite subject or verb, like on in French, and man in German, people in adversity. \ (n.) The mass of comunity as distinguished from a special class; the commonalty; the populace; the vulgar; the common crowd, nobles and people. \ (n.) One's ancestors or family; kindred; relations, my people were English. \ (n.) One's subjects; fellow citizens; companions; followers. \ (v. t.) To stock with people or inhabitants; to fill as with people; to populate.
ins percent n. a part of every hundred ("Ten is ten percent of one hundred.")
ins perhaps (adv.) By chance; peradventure; perchance; it may be.
ins person n. a man, woman or child \ (n.) A character or part, as in a play; a specific kind or manifestation of individual character, whether in real life, or in literary or dramatic representation; an assumed character. \ (n.) The bodily form of a human being; body; outward appearance; as, of comely person. \ (n.) A living, self-conscious being, as distinct from an animal or a thing; a moral agent; a human being; a man, woman, or child. \ (n.) A human being spoken of indefinitely; one, any person present. \ (n.) A parson; the parish priest. \ (n.) Among Trinitarians, one of the three subdivisions of the Godhead (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost); an hypostasis. \ (n.) One of three relations or conditions (that of speaking, that of being spoken to, and that of being spoken of) pertaining to a noun or a pronoun, and thence also to the verb of which it may be the subject. \ (n.) A shoot or bud of a plant; a polyp or zooid of the compound Hydrozoa Anthozoa, etc.; also, an individual, in the narrowest sense, among the higher animals. \ (v. t.) To represent as a person; to personify; to impersonate.
ins pet (n.) A cade lamb; a lamb brought up by hand. \ (n.) Any person or animal especially cherished and indulged; a fondling; a darling; often, a favorite child. \ (n.) A slight fit of peevishness or fretfulness. \ (a.) Petted; indulged; admired; cherished; as, a pet child; a pet lamb; a pet theory. \ (v. t.) To treat as a pet; to fondle; to indulge, she was petted and spoiled. \ (v. i.) To be a pet.
ins phone (n. & v. t.) Colloq. for Telephone.
ins photograph (n.) A picture or likeness obtained by photography. \ (v. t.) To take a picture or likeness of by means of photography; as, to photograph a view; to photograph a group. \ (v. i.) To practice photography; to take photographs.
ins piano (a. & adv.) Soft; -- a direction to the performer to execute a certain passage softly, and with diminished volume of tone. (Abbrev. p.) \ (a.) Alt. of Pianoforte
ins pick (v.) To throw; to pitch. \ (v.) To peck at, as a bird with its beak; to strike at with anything pointed; to act upon with a pointed instrument; to pierce; to prick, as with a pin. \ (v.) To separate or open by means of a sharp point or points; as, to pick matted wool, cotton, oakum, etc. \ (v.) To open (a lock) as by a wire. \ (v.) To pull apart or away, especially with the fingers; to pluck; to gather, as fruit from a tree, flowers from the stalk, feathers from a fowl, etc. \ (v.) To remove something from with a pointed instrument, with the fingers, or with the teeth, to pick the teeth; to pick a bone; to pick a goose; to pick a pocket. \ (v.) To choose; to select; to separate as choice or desirable; to cull, to pick one's company; to pick one's way; -- often with out. \ (v.) To take up; esp., to gather from here and there; to collect; to bring together, to pick rags; -- often with up, to pick up a ball or stones; to pick up information. \ (v.) To trim. \ (v. i.) To eat slowly, sparingly, or by morsels; to nibble. \ (v. i.) To do anything nicely or carefully, or by attending to small things; to select something with care. \ (v. i.) To steal; to pilfer. \ (n.) A sharp-pointed tool for picking; -- often used in composition, a toothpick; a picklock. \ (n.) A heavy iron tool, curved and sometimes pointed at both ends, wielded by means of a wooden handle inserted in the middle, -- used by quarrymen, roadmakers, etc.; also, a pointed hammer used for dressing millstones. \ (n.) A pike or spike; the sharp point fixed in the center of a buckler. \ (n.) Choice; right of selection, to have one's pick. \ (n.) That which would be picked or chosen first; the best, the pick of the flock. \ (n.) A particle of ink or paper imbedded in the hollow of a letter, filling up its face, and occasioning a spot on a printed sheet. \ (n.) That which is picked in, as with a pointed pencil, to correct an unevenness in a picture. \ (n.) The blow which drives the shuttle, -- the rate of speed of a loom being reckoned as so many picks per minute; hence, in describing the fineness of a fabric, a weft thread, so many picks to an inch.
ins picnic (v.) Formerly, an entertainment at which each person contributed some dish to a common table; now, an excursion or pleasure party in which the members partake of a collation or repast (usually in the open air, and from food carried by themselves). \ (v. i.) To go on a picnic, or pleasure excursion; to eat in public fashion.
ins picture n. something that shows what another thing looks like; an idea or representation of something as seen by the eye; a painting; what is made with a camera \ (n.) The art of painting; representation by painting. \ (n.) A representation of anything (as a person, a landscape, a building) upon canvas, paper, or other surface, produced by means of painting, drawing, engraving, photography, etc.; a representation in colors. By extension, a figure; a model. \ (n.) An image or resemblance; a representation, either to the eye or to the mind; that which, by its likeness, brings vividly to mind some other thing; as, a child is the picture of his father; the man is the picture of grief. \ (v. t.) To draw or paint a resemblance of; to delineate; to represent; to form or present an ideal likeness of; to bring before the mind.
ins piece n. a part of something larger \ (n.) A fragment or part of anything separated from the whole, in any manner, as by cutting, splitting, breaking, or tearing; a part; a portion; as, a piece of sugar; to break in pieces. \ (n.) A definite portion or quantity, as of goods or work, a piece of broadcloth; a piece of wall paper. \ (n.) Any one thing conceived of as apart from other things of the same kind; an individual article; a distinct single effort of a series; a definite performance \ (n.) A literary or artistic composition, a piece of poetry, music, or statuary. \ (n.) A musket, gun, or cannon, a battery of six pieces; a following piece. \ (n.) A coin, a sixpenny piece; -- formerly applied specifically to an English gold coin worth 22 shillings. \ (n.) A fact; an item, a piece of news; a piece of knowledge. \ (n.) An individual; -- applied to a person as being of a certain nature or quality; often, but not always, used slightingly or in contempt. \ (n.) One of the superior men, distinguished from a pawn. \ (n.) A castle; a fortified building. \ (v. t.) To make, enlarge, or repair, by the addition of a piece or pieces; to patch, to piece a garment; -- often with out. \ (v. t.) To unite; to join; to combine. \ (v. i.) To unite by a coalescence of parts; to fit together; to join.
ins pig n. a farm animal used for its meat \ (n.) A piggin. \ (n.) The young of swine, male or female; also, any swine; a hog. \ (n.) Any wild species of the genus Sus and related genera. \ (n.) An oblong mass of cast iron, lead, or other metal. See Mine pig, under Mine. \ (n.) One who is hoggish; a greedy person. \ (v. t. & i.) To bring forth (pigs); to bring forth in the manner of pigs; to farrow. \ (v. t. & i.) To huddle or lie together like pigs, in one bed.
ins pilot n. one who guides or flies an airplane or helicopter \ (n.) One employed to steer a vessel; a helmsman; a steersman. \ (n.) Specifically, a person duly qualified, and licensed by authority, to conduct vessels into and out of a port, or in certain waters, for a fixed rate of fees. \ (n.) Figuratively: A guide; a director of another through a difficult or unknown course. \ (n.) An instrument for detecting the compass error. \ (n.) The cowcatcher of a locomotive. \ (v. t.) To direct the course of, as of a ship, where navigation is dangerous. \ (v. t.) Figuratively: To guide, as through dangers or difficulties. \ (n.) One who flies, or is qualified to fly, a balloon, an airship, or a flying machine. \ (n.) A short plug at the end of a counterbore to guide the tool. Pilots are sometimes made interchangeable. \ (n.) The heading or excavation of relatively small dimensions, first made in the driving of a larger tunnel. \ (v. t.) To fly, or act as pilot of (an aircraft).
ins pink (n.) A vessel with a very narrow stern; -- called also pinky. \ (v. i.) To wink; to blink. \ (a.) Half-shut; winking. \ (v. t.) To pierce with small holes; to cut the edge of, as cloth or paper, in small scallops or angles. \ (v. t.) To stab; to pierce as with a sword. \ (v. t.) To choose; to cull; to pick out. \ (n.) A stab. \ (v. t.) A name given to several plants of the caryophyllaceous genus Dianthus, and to their flowers, which are sometimes very fragrant and often double in cultivated varieties. The species are mostly perennial herbs, with opposite linear leaves, and handsome five-petaled flowers with a tubular calyx. \ (v. t.) A color resulting from the combination of a pure vivid red with more or less white; -- so called from the common color of the flower. \ (v. t.) Anything supremely excellent; the embodiment or perfection of something. \ (v. t.) The European minnow; -- so called from the color of its abdomen in summer. \ (a.) Resembling the garden pink in color; of the color called pink (see 6th Pink, 2); as, a pink dress; pink ribbons.
ins pipe n. a long, round piece of material used to move liquid or gas \ (n.) A wind instrument of music, consisting of a tube or tubes of straw, reed, wood, or metal; any tube which produces musical sounds; as, a shepherd's pipe; the pipe of an organ. \ (n.) Any long tube or hollow body of wood, metal, earthenware, or the like: especially, one used as a conductor of water, steam, gas, etc. \ (n.) A small bowl with a hollow steam, -- used in smoking tobacco, and, sometimes, other substances. \ (n.) A passageway for the air in speaking and breathing; the windpipe, or one of its divisions. \ (n.) The key or sound of the voice. \ (n.) The peeping whistle, call, or note of a bird. \ (n.) The bagpipe, the pipes of Lucknow. \ (n.) An elongated body or vein of ore. \ (n.) A roll formerly used in the English exchequer, otherwise called the Great Roll, on which were taken down the accounts of debts to the king; -- so called because put together like a pipe. \ (n.) A boatswain's whistle, used to call the crew to their duties; also, the sound of it. \ (n.) A cask usually containing two hogsheads, or 126 wine gallons, the quantity which it contains. \ (v. i.) To play on a pipe, fife, flute, or other tubular wind instrument of music. \ (v. i.) To call, convey orders, etc., by means of signals on a pipe or whistle carried by a boatswain. \ (v. i.) To emit or have a shrill sound like that of a pipe; to whistle. \ (v. i.) To become hollow in the process of solodifying; -- said of an ingot, as of steel. \ (v. t.) To perform, as a tune, by playing on a pipe; to utter in the shrill tone of a pipe. \ (v. t.) To call or direct, as a crew, by the boatswain's whistle. \ (v. t.) To furnish or equip with pipes, to pipe an engine, or a building.
ins place v. to put something somewhere; n. an area or a part of an area; space where a person or thing is; any room, building, town or country \ (n.) Any portion of space regarded as measured off or distinct from all other space, or appropriated to some definite object or use; position; ground; site; spot; rarely, unbounded space. \ (n.) A broad way in a city; an open space; an area; a court or short part of a street open only at one end. \ (n.) A position which is occupied and held; a dwelling; a mansion; a village, town, or city; a fortified town or post; a stronghold; a region or country. \ (n.) Rank; degree; grade; order of priority, advancement, dignity, or importance; especially, social rank or position; condition; also, official station; occupation; calling. \ (n.) Vacated or relinquished space; room; stead (the departure or removal of another being or thing being implied). \ (n.) A definite position or passage of a document. \ (n.) Ordinal relation; position in the order of proceeding; as, he said in the first place. \ (n.) Reception; effect; -- implying the making room for. \ (n.) Position in the heavens, as of a heavenly body; -- usually defined by its right ascension and declination, or by its latitude and longitude. \ (n.) To assign a place to; to put in a particular spot or place, or in a certain relative position; to direct to a particular place; to fix; to settle; to locate, to place a book on a shelf; to place balls in tennis. \ (n.) To put or set in a particular rank, office, or position; to surround with particular circumstances or relations in life; to appoint to certain station or condition of life, in whatever sphere one is placed. \ (n.) To put out at interest; to invest; to loan, to place money in a bank. \ (n.) To set; to repose, to place confidence in a friend. \ (n.) To attribute; to ascribe; to set down. \ (n.) The position of first, second, or third at the finish, esp. the second position. In betting, to win a bet on a horse for place it must, in the United States, finish first or second, in England, usually, first, or third. \ (v. t.) To determine or announce the place of at the finish. Usually, in horse racing only the first three horses are placed officially. \ (v. t.) To place-kick ( a goal).
ins plan v. to organize or develop an idea or method of acting or doing something ">("They plan to have a party."); n. an organized or developed idea or method ("The plan will not work.") \ (a.) A draught or form; properly, a representation drawn on a plane, as a map or a chart; especially, a top view, as of a machine, or the representation or delineation of a horizontal section of anything, as of a building; a graphic representation; a diagram. \ (a.) A scheme devised; a method of action or procedure expressed or described in language; a project; as, the plan of a constitution; the plan of an expedition. \ (a.) A method; a way of procedure; a custom. \ (v. t.) To form a delineation of; to draught; to represent, as by a diagram. \ (v. t.) To scheme; to devise; to contrive; to form in design, to plan the conquest of a country.
ins plane (n.) Any tree of the genus Platanus. \ (a.) Without elevations or depressions; even; level; flat; lying in, or constituting, a plane; as, a plane surface. \ (a.) A surface, real or imaginary, in which, if any two points are taken, the straight line which joins them lies wholly in that surface; or a surface, any section of which by a like surface is a straight line; a surface without curvature. \ (a.) An ideal surface, conceived as coinciding with, or containing, some designated astronomical line, circle, or other curve, the plane of an orbit; the plane of the ecliptic, or of the equator. \ (a.) A block or plate having a perfectly flat surface, used as a standard of flatness; a surface plate. \ (a.) A tool for smoothing boards or other surfaces of wood, for forming moldings, etc. It consists of a smooth-soled stock, usually of wood, from the under side or face of which projects slightly the steel cutting edge of a chisel, called the iron, which inclines backward, with an apperture in front for the escape of shavings, the jack plane; the smoothing plane; the molding plane, etc. \ (a.) To make smooth; to level; to pare off the inequalities of the surface of, as of a board or other piece of wood, by the use of a plane, to plane a plank. \ (a.) To efface or remove. \ (a.) Figuratively, to make plain or smooth. \ (v. i.) Of a boat, to lift more or less out of the water while in motion, after the manner of a hydroplane; to hydroplane.
ins plant v. to put into the ground to grow; n. a living growth from the ground which gets its food from air, water and earth \ (n.) A vegetable; an organized living being, generally without feeling and voluntary motion, and having, when complete, a root, stem, and leaves, though consisting sometimes only of a single leafy expansion, or a series of cellules, or even a single cellule. \ (n.) A bush, or young tree; a sapling; hence, a stick or staff. \ (n.) The sole of the foot. \ (n.) The whole machinery and apparatus employed in carrying on a trade or mechanical business; also, sometimes including real estate, and whatever represents investment of capital in the means of carrying on a business, but not including material worked upon or finished products; as, the plant of a foundry, a mill, or a railroad. \ (n.) A plan; an artifice; a swindle; a trick. \ (n.) An oyster which has been bedded, in distinction from one of natural growth. \ (n.) A young oyster suitable for transplanting. \ (n.) To put in the ground and cover, as seed for growth, to plant maize. \ (n.) To set in the ground for growth, as a young tree, or a vegetable with roots. \ (n.) To furnish, or fit out, with plants, to plant a garden, an orchard, or a forest. \ (n.) To engender; to generate; to set the germ of. \ (n.) To furnish with a fixed and organized population; to settle; to establish, to plant a colony. \ (n.) To introduce and establish the principles or seeds of, to plant Christianity among the heathen. \ (n.) To set firmly; to fix; to set and direct, or point, to plant cannon against a fort; to plant a standard in any place; to plant one's feet on solid ground; to plant one's fist in another's face. \ (n.) To set up; to install; to instate. \ (v. i.) To perform the act of planting.
ins play v. to have fun; to not work; to take part in a sport; to make music on an instrument; n. a story acted in a theater \ (n.) To engage in sport or lively recreation; to exercise for the sake of amusement; to frolic; to spot. \ (n.) To act with levity or thoughtlessness; to trifle; to be careless. \ (n.) To contend, or take part, in a game; as, to play ball; hence, to gamble, he played for heavy stakes. \ (n.) To perform on an instrument of music, to play on a flute. \ (n.) To act; to behave; to practice deception. \ (n.) To move in any manner; especially, to move regularly with alternate or reciprocating motion; to operate; to act, the fountain plays. \ (n.) To move gayly; to wanton; to disport. \ (n.) To act on the stage; to personate a character. \ (v. t.) To put in action or motion, to play cannon upon a fortification; to play a trump. \ (v. t.) To perform music upon, to play the flute or the organ. \ (v. t.) To perform, as a piece of music, on an instrument, to play a waltz on the violin. \ (v. t.) To bring into sportive or wanton action; to exhibit in action; to execute, to play tricks. \ (v. t.) To act or perform (a play); to represent in music action, to play a comedy; also, to act in the character of; to represent by acting; to simulate; to behave like, to play King Lear; to play the woman. \ (v. t.) To engage in, or go together with, as a contest for amusement or for a wager or prize, to play a game at baseball. \ (v. t.) To keep in play, as a hooked fish, in order to land it. \ (n.) Amusement; sport; frolic; gambols. \ (n.) Any exercise, or series of actions, intended for amusement or diversion; a game. \ (n.) The act or practice of contending for victory, amusement, or a prize, as at dice, cards, or billiards; gaming, to lose a fortune in play. \ (n.) Action; use; employment; exercise; practice, fair play; sword play; a play of wit. \ (n.) A dramatic composition; a comedy or tragedy; a composition in which characters are represented by dialogue and action. \ (n.) The representation or exhibition of a comedy or tragedy, he attends ever play. \ (n.) Performance on an instrument of music. \ (n.) Motion; movement, regular or irregular, the play of a wheel or piston, room for motion; free and easy action. \ (n.) Hence, liberty of acting; room for enlargement or display; scope, to give full play to mirth.
ins please v. to make one happy; to give enjoyment \ (v. t.) To give pleasure to; to excite agreeable sensations or emotions in; to make glad; to gratify; to content; to satisfy. \ (v. t.) To have or take pleasure in; hence, to choose; to wish; to desire; to will. \ (v. t.) To be the will or pleasure of; to seem good to; -- used impersonally. \ (v. i.) To afford or impart pleasure; to excite agreeable emotions. \ (v. i.) To have pleasure; to be willing, as a matter of affording pleasure or showing favor; to vouchsafe; to consent.
ins pocket (n.) A bag or pouch; especially; a small bag inserted in a garment for carrying small articles, particularly money; hence, figuratively, money; wealth. \ (n.) One of several bags attached to a billiard table, into which the balls are driven. \ (n.) A large bag or sack used in packing various articles, as ginger, hops, cowries, etc. \ (n.) A hole or space covered by a movable piece of board, as in a floor, boxing, partitions, or the like. \ (n.) A cavity in a rock containing a nugget of gold, or other mineral; a small body of ore contained in such a cavity. \ (n.) A hole containing water. \ (n.) A strip of canvas, sewn upon a sail so that a batten or a light spar can placed in the interspace. \ (n.) Same as Pouch. \ (v. t.) To put, or conceal, in the pocket; as, to pocket the change. \ (v. t.) To take clandestinely or fraudulently. \ (n.) Any hollow place suggestive of a pocket in form or use; \ (n.) A bin for storing coal, grain, etc. \ (n.) A socket for receiving the foot of a post, stake, etc. \ (n.) A bight on a lee shore.
ins point v. to aim one's finger toward; to aim; n. the sharp end of something \ (v. t. & i.) To appoint. \ (n.) That which pricks or pierces; the sharp end of anything, esp. the sharp end of a piercing instrument, as a needle or a pin. \ (n.) An instrument which pricks or pierces, as a sort of needle used by engravers, etchers, lace workers, and others; also, a pointed cutting tool, as a stone cutter's point; -- called also pointer. \ (n.) Anything which tapers to a sharp, well-defined termination. Specifically: A small promontory or cape; a tract of land extending into the water beyond the common shore line. \ (n.) The mark made by the end of a sharp, piercing instrument, as a needle; a prick. \ (n.) An indefinitely small space; a mere spot indicated or supposed. Specifically: (Geom.) That which has neither parts nor magnitude; that which has position, but has neither length, breadth, nor thickness, -- sometimes conceived of as the limit of a line; that by the motion of which a line is conceived to be produced. \ (n.) An indivisible portion of time; a moment; an instant; hence, the verge. \ (n.) A mark of punctuation; a character used to mark the divisions of a composition, or the pauses to be observed in reading, or to point off groups of figures, etc.; a stop, as a comma, a semicolon, and esp. a period, figuratively, an end, or conclusion. \ (n.) Whatever serves to mark progress, rank, or relative position, or to indicate a transition from one state or position to another, degree; step; stage, position or condition attained; as, a point of elevation, or of depression; the stock fell off five points; he won by tenpoints. \ (n.) That which arrests attention, or indicates qualities or character; a salient feature; a characteristic; a peculiarity, a particular; an item; a detail, the good or bad points of a man, a horse, a book, a story, etc. \ (n.) Hence, the most prominent or important feature, as of an argument, discourse; the essential matter; esp., the proposition to be established, the point of an anecdote. \ (n.) A small matter; a trifle; a least consideration; a punctilio. \ (n.) A dot or mark used to designate certain tones or time \ (n.) A dot or mark distinguishing or characterizing certain tones or styles, points of perfection, of augmentation, a note; a tune. \ (n.) A dot placed at the right hand of a note, to raise its value, or prolong its time, by one half, as to make a whole note equal to three half notes, a half note equal to three quarter notes. \ (n.) A fixed conventional place for reference, or zero of reckoning, in the heavens, usually the intersection of two or more great circles of the sphere, and named specifically in each case according to the position intended, the equinoctial points; the solstitial points; the nodal points; vertical points, etc. See Equinoctial Nodal. \ (n.) One of the several different parts of the escutcheon. See Escutcheon. \ (n.) A short piece of cordage used in reefing sails. See Reef point, under Reef. \ (n.) A switch.
ins police n. a government agency responsible for guarding the public, keeping order, and making sure people obey the law; members of that agency \ (n.) A judicial and executive system, for the government of a city, town, or district, for the preservation of rights, order, cleanliness, health, etc., and for the enforcement of the laws and prevention of crime; the administration of the laws and regulations of a city, incorporated town, or borough. \ (n.) That which concerns the order of the community; the internal regulation of a state. \ (n.) The organized body of civil officers in a city, whose particular duties are the preservation of good order, the prevention and detection of crime, and the enforcement of the laws. \ (n.) Military police, the body of soldiers detailed to preserve civil order and attend to sanitary arrangements in a camp or garrison. \ (n.) The cleaning of a camp or garrison, or the state \ (v. t.) To keep in order by police. \ (v. t.) To make clean; as, to police a camp. / a camp as to cleanliness.
ins policeman (n.) A member of a body of police; a constable.
ins pool (n.) A small and rather deep collection of (usually) fresh water, as one supplied by a spring, or occurring in the course of a stream; a reservoir for water; as, the pools of Solomon. \ (n.) A small body of standing or stagnant water; a puddle. \ (n.) The stake played for in certain games of cards, billiards, etc.; an aggregated stake to which each player has contributed a snare; also, the receptacle for the stakes. \ (n.) A game at billiards, in which each of the players stakes a certain sum, the winner taking the whole, in public billiard rooms, a game in which the loser pays the entrance fee for all who engage in the game; a game of skill in pocketing the balls on a pool table. \ (n.) In rifle shooting, a contest in which each competitor pays a certain sum for every shot he makes, the net proceeds being divided among the winners. \ (n.) Any gambling or commercial venture in which several persons join. \ (n.) A combination of persons contributing money to be used for the purpose of increasing or depressing the market price of stocks, grain, or other commodities, the aggregate of the sums so contributed, the pool took all the wheat offered below the limit; he put $10,000 into the pool. \ (n.) A mutual arrangement between competing lines, by which the receipts of all are aggregated, and then distributed pro rata according to agreement. \ (n.) An aggregation of properties or rights, belonging to different people in a community, in a common fund, to be charged with common liabilities. \ (v. t.) To put together; to contribute to a common fund, on the basis of a mutual division of profits or losses; to make a common interest of, the companies pooled their traffic. \ (v. i.) To combine or contribute with others, as for a commercial, speculative, or gambling transaction.
ins poor n. people with little or no money; ad. lacking money or goods; of bad quality \ (superl.) Destitute of property; wanting in material riches or goods; needy; indigent. \ (superl.) So completely destitute of property as to be entitled to maintenance from the public. \ (superl.) Destitute of such qualities as are desirable, or might naturally be expected \ (superl.) Wanting in fat, plumpness, or fleshiness; lean; emaciated; meager; as, a poor horse, ox, dog, etc. \ (superl.) Wanting in strength or vigor; feeble; dejected, poor health; poor spirits. \ (superl.) Of little value or worth; not good; inferior; shabby; mean, poor clothes; poor lodgings. \ (superl.) Destitute of fertility; exhausted; barren; sterile; -- said of land, poor soil. \ (superl.) Destitute of beauty, fitness, or merit, a poor discourse; a poor picture. \ (superl.) Without prosperous conditions or good results; unfavorable; unfortunate; unconformable, a poor business; the sick man had a poor night. \ (superl.) Inadequate; insufficient; insignificant, a poor excuse. \ (superl.) Worthy of pity or sympathy; -- used also sometimes as a term of endearment, or as an expression of modesty, and sometimes as a word of contempt. \ (superl.) Free from self-assertion; not proud or arrogant; meek. \ (n.) A small European codfish (Gadus minutus); -- called also power cod.
ins popular ad. liked by many people; generally approved by the public \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the common people, or to the whole body of the people, as distinguished from a select portion; as, the popular voice; popular elections. \ (a.) Suitable to common people; easy to be comprehended; not abstruse; familiar; plain. \ (a.) Adapted to the means of the common people; possessed or obtainable by the many; hence, cheap; common; ordinary; inferior, popular prices; popular amusements. \ (a.) Beloved or approved by the people; pleasing to people in general, or to many people, a popular preacher; a popular law; a popular administration. \ (a.) Devoted to the common people; studious of the favor of the populace. \ (a.) Prevailing among the people; epidemic, a popular disease.
ins pork (n.) The flesh of swine, fresh or salted, used for food.
ins post (a.) Hired to do what is wrong; suborned. \ (n.) A piece of timber, metal, or other solid substance, fixed, or to be fixed, firmly in an upright position, especially when intended as a stay or support to something else; a pillar; as, a hitching post; a fence post; the posts of a house. \ (n.) The doorpost of a victualer's shop or inn, on which were chalked the scores of customers; hence, a score; a debt. \ (n.) The place at which anything is stopped, placed, or fixed; a station. \ (n.) A station, or one of a series of stations, established for the refreshment and accommodation of travelers on some recognized route, a stage or railway post. \ (n.) A military station; the place at which a soldier or a body of troops is stationed; also, the troops at such a station. \ (n.) The piece of ground to which a sentinel's walk is limited. \ (n.) A messenger who goes from station; an express; especially, one who is employed by the government to carry letters and parcels regularly from one place to another; a letter carrier; a postman. \ (n.) An established conveyance for letters from one place or station to another, the governmental system in any country for carrying and distributing letters and parcels; the post office; the mail, the carriage by which the mail is transported. \ (n.) Haste or speed, like that of a messenger or mail carrier. \ (n.) One who has charge of a station, especially of a postal station. \ (n.) A station, office, or position of service, trust, or emolument, the post of duty; the post of danger. \ (n.) A size of printing and writing paper. See the Table under Paper. \ (v. t.) To attach to a post, a wall, or other usual place of affixing public notices; to placard, to post a notice; to post playbills. \ (v. t.) To hold up to public blame or reproach; to advertise opprobriously; to denounce by public proclamation, to post one for cowardice. \ (v. t.) To enter (a name) on a list, as for service, promotion, or the like. \ (v. t.) To assign to a station; to set; to place, to post a sentinel. \ (v. t.) To carry, as an account, from the journal to the ledger, to post an account; to transfer, as accounts, to the ledger. \ (v. t.) To place in the care of the post; to mail, to post a letter. \ (v. t.) To inform; to give the news to; to make (one) acquainted with the details of a subject; -- often with up. \ (v. i.) To travel with post horses; figuratively, to travel in haste. \ (v. i.) To rise and sink in the saddle, in accordance with the motion of the horse, esp. in trotting. \ (adv.) With post horses, in haste, to travel post. \ A pole or pillar, carved and painted with a series of totemic symbols, set up before the house of certain Indian tribes of the northwest coast of North America, esp. Indians of the Koluschan stock.
ins pot (n.) A metallic or earthen vessel, appropriated to any of a great variety of uses, as for boiling meat or vegetables, for holding liquids, for plants, etc.; as, a quart pot; a flower pot; a bean pot. \ (n.) An earthen or pewter cup for liquors; a mug. \ (n.) The quantity contained in a pot; a potful, a pot of ale. \ (n.) A metal or earthenware extension of a flue above the top of a chimney; a chimney pot. \ (n.) A crucible, a graphite pot; a melting pot. \ (n.) A wicker vessel for catching fish, eels, etc. \ (n.) A perforated cask for draining sugar. \ (n.) A size of paper. See Pott. \ (v. t.) To place or inclose in pots \ (v. t.) To preserve seasoned in pots. \ (v. t.) To set out or cover in pots, potted plants or bulbs. \ (v. t.) To drain, to pot sugar, by taking it from the cooler, and placing it in hogsheads, having perforated heads, through which the molasses drains off. \ (v. t.) To pocket. \ (v. i.) To tipple; to drink. \ (v. t.) To shoot for the pot, i.e., cooking; to secure or hit by a pot shot; to shoot when no special skill is needed. \ (v. t.) To secure; gain; win; bag. \ (v. i.) To take a pot shot or shots, as at game or an enemy. \ (n.) The total of the bets at stake at one time, as in racing or card playing; the pool; \ (n.) a horse heavily backed; a favorite. \ (n.) A plain defensive headpiece; later, and perhaps in a jocose sense, any helmet; -- called also pot helmet. \ (n.) The total of the bets at one time; the pool. \ Alt. of race
ins potato (n.) A plant (Solanum tuberosum) of the Nightshade family, and its esculent farinaceous tuber, of which there are numerous varieties used for food. It is native of South America, but a form of the species is found native as far north as New Mexico. \ (n.) The sweet potato (see below).
ins pound (v. t.) To strike repeatedly with some heavy instrument; to beat. \ (v. t.) To comminute and pulverize by beating; to bruise or break into fine particles with a pestle or other heavy instrument; as, to pound spice or salt. \ (v. i.) To strike heavy blows; to beat. \ (v. i.) To make a jarring noise, as in running, the engine pounds. \ (n.) An inclosure, maintained by public authority, in which cattle or other animals are confined when taken in trespassing, or when going at large in violation of law; a pinfold. \ (n.) A level stretch in a canal between locks. \ (n.) A kind of net, having a large inclosure with a narrow entrance into which fish are directed by wings spreading outward. \ (v. t.) To confine in, or as in, a pound; to impound. \ (pl. ) of Pound \ (n.) A certain specified weight; especially, a legal standard consisting of an established number of ounces. \ (n.) A British denomination of money of account, equivalent to twenty shillings sterling, and equal in value to about $4.86. There is no coin known by this name, but the gold sovereign is of the same value.
ins power n. the ability to control or direct others; control; strength; ruling force; force or energy used to do work ("Water power turns the wheel.") \ (n.) Same as Poor, the fish. \ (n.) Ability to act, regarded as latent or inherent; the faculty of doing or performing something; capacity for action or performance; capability of producing an effect, whether physical or moral: potency; might; as, a man of great power; the power of capillary attraction; money gives power. \ (n.) Ability, regarded as put forth or exerted, force, or energy in action, the power of steam in moving an engine; the power of truth, or of argument, in producing conviction; the power of enthusiasm. \ (n.) Capacity of undergoing or suffering; fitness to be acted upon; susceptibility; -- called also passive power, great power of endurance. \ (n.) The exercise of a faculty; the employment of strength; the exercise of any kind of control; influence; dominion; sway; command; government. \ (n.) The agent exercising an ability to act; an individual invested with authority; an institution, or government, which exercises control, the great powers of Europe; hence, often, a superhuman agent; a spirit; a divinity. \ (n.) A military or naval force; an army or navy; a great host. \ (n.) A large quantity; a great number, a power o/ good things. \ (n.) The rate at which mechanical energy is exerted or mechanical work performed, as by an engine or other machine, or an animal, working continuously, an engine of twenty horse power. \ (n.) A mechanical agent; that from which useful mechanical energy is derived, water power; steam power; hand power, etc. \ (n.) Applied force; force producing motion or pressure, the power applied at one and of a lever to lift a weight at the other end. \ (n.) A machine acted upon by an animal, and serving as a motor to drive other machinery, a dog power. \ (n.) The product arising from the multiplication of a number into itself, a square is the second power, and a cube is third power, of a number. \ (n.) Mental or moral ability to act; one of the faculties which are possessed by the mind or soul, the power of thinking, reasoning, judging, willing, fearing, hoping, etc. \ (n.) The degree to which a lens, mirror, or any optical instrument, magnifies; in the telescope, and usually in the microscope, the number of times it multiplies, or augments, the apparent diameter of an object; sometimes, in microscopes, the number of times it multiplies the apparent surface. \ (n.) An authority enabling a person to dispose of an interest vested either in himself or in another person; ownership by appointment. \ (n.) Hence, vested authority to act in a given case, the business was referred to a committee with power.
ins practice (n.) Frequently repeated or customary action; habitual performance; a succession of acts of a similar kind; usage; habit; custom; as, the practice of rising early; the practice of making regular entries of accounts; the practice of daily exercise. \ (n.) Customary or constant use; state of being used. \ (n.) Skill or dexterity acquired by use; expertness. \ (n.) Actual performance; application of knowledge; -- opposed to theory. \ (n.) Systematic exercise for instruction or discipline, the troops are called out for practice; she neglected practice in music. \ (n.) Application of science to the wants of men; the exercise of any profession; professional business, the practice of medicine or law; a large or lucrative practice. \ (n.) Skillful or artful management; dexterity in contrivance or the use of means; art; stratagem; artifice; plot; -- usually in a bad sense. \ (n.) A easy and concise method of applying the rules of arithmetic to questions which occur in trade and business. \ (n.) The form, manner, and order of conducting and carrying on suits and prosecutions through their various stages, according to the principles of law and the rules laid down by the courts. \ (v. t.) To do or perform frequently, customarily, or habitually; to make a practice of, to practice gaming. \ (v. t.) To exercise, or follow, as a profession, trade, etc., to practice law or medicine. \ (v. t.) To exercise one's self in, for instruction or improvement, or to acquire discipline or dexterity, to practice gunnery; to practice music. \ (v. t.) To put into practice; to carry out; to act upon; to commit; to execute; to do. \ (v. t.) To make use of; to employ. \ (v. t.) To teach or accustom by practice; to train. \ (v. i.) To perform certain acts frequently or customarily, either for instruction, profit, or amusement, to practice with the broadsword or with the rifle; to practice on the piano. \ (v. i.) To learn by practice; to form a habit. \ (v. i.) To try artifices or stratagems. \ (v. i.) To apply theoretical science or knowledge, esp. by way of experiment; to exercise or pursue an employment or profession, esp. that of medicine or of law.
ins present v. to offer for consideration ("We will present our idea to the committee."); n. a gift ("I gave them a present for their anniversary."); now ("The present time is a good time."); ad. to be at a place ("I was present at school yesterday.") \ (a.) Being at hand, within reach or call, within certain contemplated limits; -- opposed to absent. \ (a.) Now existing, or in process; begun but not ended; now in view, or under consideration; being at this time; not past or future; as, the present session of Congress; the present state of affairs; the present instance. \ (a.) Not delayed; immediate; instant; coincident. \ (a.) Ready; quick in emergency; as a present wit. \ (a.) Favorably attentive; propitious. \ (a.) Present time; the time being; time in progress now, or at the moment contemplated, at this present. \ (a.) Present letters or instrument, as a deed of conveyance, a lease, letter of attorney, or other writing; as in the phrase, " Know all men by these presents," that is, by the writing itself, " per has literas praesentes; " -- in this sense, rarely used in the singular. \ (a.) A present tense, or the form of the verb denoting the present tense. \ (a.) To bring or introduce into the presence of some one, especially of a superior; to introduce formally; to offer for acquaintance, to present an envoy to the king; (with the reciprocal pronoun) to come into the presence of a superior. \ (a.) To exhibit or offer to view or notice; to lay before one's perception or cognizance; to set forth; to present a fine appearance. \ (a.) To pass over, esp. in a ceremonious manner; to give in charge or possession; to deliver; to make over. \ (a.) To make a gift of; to bestow; to give, generally in a formal or ceremonious manner; to grant; to confer. \ (a.) Hence: To endow; to bestow a gift upon; to favor, as with a donation; also, to court by gifts. \ (a.) To present; to personate. \ (a.) To nominate to an ecclesiastical benefice; to offer to the bishop or ordinary as a candidate for institution. \ (a.) To nominate for support at a public school or other institution . \ (a.) To lay before a public body, or an official, for consideration, as before a legislature, a court of judicature, a corporation, etc., to present a memorial, petition, remonstrance, or indictment. \ (a.) To lay before a court as an object of inquiry; to give notice officially of, as a crime of offence; to find or represent judicially, a grand jury present certain offenses or nuisances, or whatever they think to be public injuries. \ (a.) To bring an indictment against . \ (a.) To aim, point, or direct, as a weapon, to present a pistol or the point of a sword to the breast of another. \ (v. i.) To appear at the mouth of the uterus so as to be perceptible to the finger in vaginal examination; -- said of a part of an infant during labor. \ (n.) Anything presented or given; a gift; a donative, a Christmas present. \ (n.) The position of a soldier in presenting arms, to stand at present.
ins pretty (superl.) Pleasing by delicacy or grace; attracting, but not striking or impressing; of a pleasing and attractive form a color; having slight or diminutive beauty; neat or elegant without elevation or grandeur; pleasingly, but not grandly, conceived or expressed; as, a pretty face; a pretty flower; a pretty poem. \ (superl.) Moderately large; considerable, he had saved a pretty fortune. \ (superl.) Affectedly nice; foppish; -- used in an ill sense. \ (superl.) Mean; despicable; contemptible; -- used ironically, a pretty trick; a pretty fellow. \ (superl.) Stout; strong and brave; intrepid; valiant. \ (adv.) In some degree; moderately; considerably; rather; almost; -- less emphatic than very, I am pretty sure of the fact; pretty cold weather.
ins price n. the amount of money for which anything is bought, sold or offered for sale \ (n. & v.) The sum or amount of money at which a thing is valued, or the value which a seller sets on his goods in market; that for which something is bought or sold, or offered for sale; equivalent in money or other means of exchange; current value or rate paid or demanded in market or in barter; cost. \ (n. & v.) Value; estimation; excellence; worth. \ (n. & v.) Reward; recompense; as, the price of industry. \ (v. t.) To pay the price of. \ (v. t.) To set a price on; to value. See Prize. \ (v. t.) To ask the price of, to price eggs.
ins promise (a.) In general, a declaration, written or verbal, made by one person to another, which binds the person who makes it to do, or to forbear to do, a specified act; a declaration which gives to the person to whom it is made a right to expect or to claim the performance or forbearance of a specified act. \ (a.) An engagement by one person to another, either in words or in writing, but properly not under seal, for the performance or nonperformance of some particular thing. The word promise is used to denote the mere engagement of a person, without regard to the consideration for it, or the corresponding duty of the party to whom it is made. \ (a.) That which causes hope, expectation, or assurance; especially, that which affords expectation of future distinction; as, a youth of great promise. \ (a.) Bestowal, fulfillment, or grant of what is promised. \ (v. t.) To engage to do, give, make, or to refrain from doing, giving, or making, or the like; to covenant; to engage, to promise a visit; to promise a cessation of hostilities; to promise the payment of money. \ (v. t.) To afford reason to expect; to cause hope or assurance of, the clouds promise rain. \ (v. t.) To make declaration of or give assurance of, as some benefit to be conferred; to pledge or engage to bestow, the proprietors promised large tracts of land; the city promised a reward. \ (v. i.) To give assurance by a promise, or binding declaration. \ (v. i.) To afford hopes or expectation; to give ground to expect good; rarely, to give reason to expect evil.
ins proud (superl.) Feeling or manifesting pride, in a good or bad sense \ (superl.) Possessing or showing too great self-esteem; overrating one's excellences; hence, arrogant; haughty; lordly; presumptuous. \ (superl.) Having a feeling of high self-respect or self-esteem; exulting (in); elated; -- often with of; as, proud of one's country. \ (superl.) Giving reason or occasion for pride or self-gratulation; worthy of admiration; grand; splendid; magnificent; admirable; ostentatious. \ (superl.) Excited by sexual desire; -- applied particularly to the females of some animals.
ins pull v. to use force to move something toward the person or thing using the force; opposite push \ (v. t.) To draw, or attempt to draw, toward one; to draw forcibly. \ (v. t.) To draw apart; to tear; to rend. \ (v. t.) To gather with the hand, or by drawing toward one; to pluck; as, to pull fruit; to pull flax; to pull a finch. \ (v. t.) To move or operate by the motion of drawing towards one, to pull a bell; to pull an oar. \ (v. t.) To hold back, and so prevent from winning, the favorite was pulled. \ (v. t.) To take or make, as a proof or impression; -- hand presses being worked by pulling a lever. \ (v. t.) To strike the ball in a particular manner. See Pull, n., 8. \ (v. i.) To exert one's self in an act or motion of drawing or hauling; to tug, to pull at a rope. \ (n.) The act of pulling or drawing with force; an effort to move something by drawing toward one. \ (n.) A contest; a struggle, a wrestling pull. \ (n.) A pluck; loss or violence suffered. \ (n.) A knob, handle, or lever, etc., by which anything is pulled, a drawer pull; a bell pull. \ (n.) The act of rowing, a pull on the river. \ (n.) The act of drinking, to take a pull at the beer, or the mug. \ (n.) Something in one's favor in a comparison or a contest; an advantage; means of influencing, in weights the favorite had the pull. \ (n.) A kind of stroke by which a leg ball is sent to the off side, or an off ball to the side.
ins push v. to use force to move something away from the person or thing using the force; opposite pull \ (n.) A pustule; a pimple. \ (v. t.) To press against with force; to drive or impel by pressure; to endeavor to drive by steady pressure, without striking; -- opposed to draw. \ (v. t.) To thrust the points of the horns against; to gore. \ (v. t.) To press or urge forward; to drive; to push an objection too far. \ (v. t.) To bear hard upon; to perplex; to embarrass. \ (v. t.) To importune; to press with solicitation; to tease. \ (v. i.) To make a thrust; to shove; as, to push with the horns or with a sword. \ (v. i.) To make an advance, attack, or effort; to be energetic, a man must push in order to succeed. \ (v. i.) To burst pot, as a bud or shoot. \ (n.) A thrust with a pointed instrument, or with the end of a thing. \ (n.) Any thrust. pressure, impulse, or force, or force applied; a shove, to give the ball the first push. \ (n.) An assault or attack; an effort; an attempt; hence, the time or occasion for action. \ (n.) The faculty of overcoming obstacles; aggressive energy, he has push, or he has no push. \ (n.) A crowd; a company or clique of associates; a gang.
ins put v. to place; to set in position \ (n.) A pit. \ 3d pers. sing. pres. of Put, contracted from putteth. \ (n.) A rustic; a clown; an awkward or uncouth person. \ (imp. & p. p.) of Put \ (v. t.) To move in any direction; to impel; to thrust; to push; -- nearly obsolete, except with adverbs, as with by (to put by = to thrust aside; to divert); or with forth (to put forth = to thrust out). \ (v. t.) To bring to a position or place; to place; to lay; to set; figuratively, to cause to be or exist in a specified relation, condition, or the like; to bring to a stated mental or moral condition; as, to put one in fear; to put a theory in practice; to put an enemy to fight. \ (v. t.) To attach or attribute; to assign, to put a wrong construction on an act or expression. \ (v. t.) To lay down; to give up; to surrender. \ (v. t.) To set before one for judgment, acceptance, or rejection; to bring to the attention; to offer; to state; to express, to assume; to suppose; -- formerly sometimes followed by that introducing a proposition, to put a question; to put a case. \ (v. t.) To incite; to entice; to urge; to constrain; to oblige. \ (v. t.) To throw or cast with a pushing motion "overhand," the hand being raised from the shoulder; a practice in athletics, to put the shot or weight. \ (v. t.) To convey coal in the mine, as from the working to the tramway. \ (v. i.) To go or move, when the air first puts up. \ (v. i.) To steer; to direct one's course; to go. \ (v. i.) To play a card or a hand in the game called put. \ (n.) The act of putting; an action; a movement; a thrust; a push, the put of a ball. \ (n.) A certain game at cards. \ (n.) A privilege which one party buys of another to "put" (deliver) to him a certain amount of stock, grain, etc., at a certain price and date. \ (n.) A prostitute.
ins quarter (n.) One of four equal parts into which anything is divided, or is regarded as divided; a fourth part or portion; as, a quarter of a dollar, of a pound, of a yard, of an hour, etc. \ (n.) The fourth of a hundred-weight, being 25 or 28 pounds, according as the hundredweight is reckoned at 100 or 112 pounds. \ (n.) The fourth of a ton in weight, or eight bushels of grain, a quarter of wheat; also, the fourth part of a chaldron of coal. \ (n.) The fourth part of the moon's period, or monthly revolution, the first quarter after the change or full. \ (n.) One limb of a quadruped with the adjacent parts; one fourth part of the carcass of a slaughtered animal, including a leg, the fore quarters; the hind quarters. \ (n.) That part of a boot or shoe which forms the side, from the heel to the vamp. \ (n.) That part on either side of a horse's hoof between the toe and heel, being the side of the coffin. \ (n.) A term of study in a seminary, college, etc, etc.; properly, a fourth part of the year, but often longer or shorter. \ (n.) The encampment on one of the principal passages round a place besieged, to prevent relief and intercept convoys. \ (n.) The after-part of a vessel's side, generally corresponding in extent with the quarter-deck, the part of the yardarm outside of the slings. \ (n.) One of the divisions of an escutcheon when it is divided into four portions by a horizontal and a perpendicular line meeting in the fess point. \ (v. t.) A division of a town, city, or county; a particular district; a locality, the Latin quarter in Paris. \ (v. t.) A small upright timber post, used in partitions; -- in the United States more commonly called stud. \ (v. t.) The fourth part of the distance from one point of the compass to another, being the fourth part of 11, 15', that is, about 2, 49'; -- called also quarter point. \ (v. t.) Proper station; specific place; assigned position; special location. \ (v. t.) A station at which officers and men are posted in battle; -- usually in the plural. \ (v. t.) Place of lodging or temporary residence; shelter; entertainment; -- usually in the plural. \ (v. t.) A station or encampment occupied by troops; a place of lodging for soldiers or officers, winter quarters. \ (v. t.) Treatment shown by an enemy; mercy; especially, the act of sparing the life a conquered enemy; a refraining from pushing one's advantage to extremes. \ (v. t.) Friendship; amity; concord. \ (v. i.) To lodge; to have a temporary residence. \ (v. i.) To drive a carriage so as to prevent the wheels from going into the ruts, or so that a rut shall be between the wheels.
ins queen (n.) The wife of a king. \ (n.) A woman who is the sovereign of a kingdom; a female monarch; as, Elizabeth, queen of England; Mary, queen of Scots. \ (n.) A woman eminent in power or attractions; the highest of her kind, a queen in society; -- also used figuratively of cities, countries, etc. \ (n.) The fertile, or fully developed, female of social bees, ants, and termites. \ (n.) The most powerful, and except the king the most important, piece in a set of chessmen. \ (n.) A playing card bearing the picture of a queen, the queen of spades. \ (n.) A male homosexual, esp. one who is effeminate or dresses in women's clothing. \ (v. i.) To act the part of a queen. \ (v. i.) To make a queen (or other piece, at the player's discretion) of by moving it to the eighth row, to queen a pawn.
ins question v. to ask; to express wonder or disbelief; n. a sentence or word used in asking for information; a problem; an issue to be discussed \ (n.) The act of asking; interrogation; inquiry; as, to examine by question and answer. \ (n.) Discussion; debate; hence, objection; dispute; doubt, the story is true beyond question; he obeyed without question. \ (n.) Examination with reference to a decisive result; investigation; specifically, a judicial or official investigation; also, examination under torture. \ (n.) That which is asked; interrogatory; query. \ (n.) Hence, a subject of investigation, examination, or debate; theme of inquiry; matter to be inquired into, a delicate or doubtful question. \ (n.) Talk; conversation; speech; speech. \ (n.) To ask questions; to inquire. \ (n.) To argue; to converse; to dispute. \ (v. t.) To inquire of by asking questions; to examine by interrogatories, to question a witness. \ (v. t.) To doubt of; to be uncertain of; to query. \ (v. t.) To raise a question about; to call in question; to make objection to. \ (v. t.) To talk to; to converse with.
ins quick ad. fast \ (superl.) Alive; living; animate; -- opposed to dead or inanimate. \ (superl.) Characterized by life or liveliness; animated; sprightly; agile; brisk; ready. \ (superl.) Speedy; hasty; swift; not slow; as, be quick. \ (superl.) Impatient; passionate; eager; sharp; unceremonious, a quick temper. \ (superl.) Fresh; bracing; keen. \ (superl.) Sensitive; perceptive in a high degree; ready, a quick ear. \ (superl.) Pregnant; with child. \ (adv.) In a quick manner; quickly; promptly; rapidly; with haste; speedily; without delay, run quick; get back quick. \ (n.) That which is quick, or alive; a living animal or plant; especially, the hawthorn, or other plants used in making a living hedge. \ (n.) The life; the mortal point; a vital part; a part susceptible of serious injury or keen feeling; the sensitive living flesh; the part of a finger or toe to which the nail is attached; the tender emotions, to cut a finger nail to the quick; to thrust a sword to the quick, to taunt one to the quick; -- used figuratively. \ (n.) Quitch grass. \ (v. t. & i.) To revive; to quicken; to be or become alive.
ins quickly (adv.) Speedily; with haste or celerity; soon; without delay; quick.
ins quiet ad. with little or no noise; having little or no movement; calm \ (a.) In a state of rest or calm; without stir, motion, or agitation; still; as, a quiet sea; quiet air. \ (a.) Free from noise or disturbance; hushed; still. \ (a.) Not excited or anxious; calm; peaceful; placid; settled, a quiet life; a quiet conscience. \ (a.) Not giving offense; not exciting disorder or trouble; not turbulent; gentle; mild; meek; contented. \ (a.) Not showy; not such as to attract attention; undemonstrative, a quiet dress; quiet colors; a quiet movement. \ (a.) The quality or state of being quiet, or in repose; as an hour or a time of quiet. \ (a.) Freedom from disturbance, noise, or alarm; stillness; tranquillity; peace; security. \ (v. t.) To stop motion in; to still; to reduce to a state of rest, or of silence. \ (v. t.) To calm; to appease; to pacify; to lull; to allay; to tranquillize, to quiet the passions; to quiet clamors or disorders; to quiet pain or grief. \ (v. i.) To become still, silent, or calm; -- often with down, be soon quieted down.
ins rabbit (n.) Any of the smaller species of the genus Lepus, especially the common European species (Lepus cuniculus), which is often kept as a pet, and has been introduced into many countries. It is remarkably prolific, and has become a pest in some parts of Australia and New Zealand.
ins race v. to run; to take part in a competition to decide who or what can move fastest; to take part in a campaign for political office; n. one of the major groups that humans can be divided into because of a common physical similarity, such as skin color \ (v. t.) To raze. \ (n.) A root. \ (n.) The descendants of a common ancestor; a family, tribe, people, or nation, believed or presumed to belong to the same stock; a lineage; a breed. \ (n.) Company; herd; breed. \ (n.) A variety of such fixed character that it may be propagated by seed. \ (n.) Peculiar flavor, taste, or strength, as of wine; that quality, or assemblage of qualities, which indicates origin or kind, as in wine; hence, characteristic flavor; smack. \ (n.) Hence, characteristic quality or disposition. \ (n.) A progress; a course; a movement or progression. \ (n.) Esp., swift progress; rapid course; a running. \ (n.) Hence: The act or process of running in competition; a contest of speed in any way, as in running, riding, driving, skating, rowing, sailing; in the plural, usually, a meeting for contests in the running of horses; as, he attended the races. \ (n.) Competitive action of any kind, especially when prolonged, career; course of life. \ (n.) A strong or rapid current of water, or the channel or passage for such a current; a powerful current or heavy sea, sometimes produced by the meeting of two tides, the Portland Race; the Race of Alderney. \ (n.) The current of water that turns a water wheel, or the channel in which it flows; a mill race. \ (n.) A channel or guide along which a shuttle is driven back and forth, as in a loom, sewing machine, etc. \ (v. i.) To run swiftly; to contend in a race, the animals raced over the ground; the ships raced from port to port. \ (v. i.) To run too fast at times, as a marine engine or screw, when the screw is lifted out of water by the action of a heavy sea. \ (v. t.) To cause to contend in a race; to drive at high speed, to race horses. \ (v. t.) To run a race with. \ A game, match, etc., open only to losers in early stages of contests.
ins radio n. the system of sending and receiving signals or sounds through the air without wires \ (a.) Of or pertaining to, or employing, or operated by, radiant energy, specifically that of electric waves; hence, pertaining to, or employed in, radiotelegraphy.
ins rain n. water falling from the sky \ (n. & v.) Reign. \ (n.) Water falling in drops from the clouds; the descent of water from the clouds in drops. \ (n.) To fall in drops from the clouds, as water; -- used mostly with it for a nominative; as, it rains. \ (n.) To fall or drop like water from the clouds, tears rained from their eyes. \ (v. t.) To pour or shower down from above, like rain from the clouds. \ (v. t.) To bestow in a profuse or abundant manner, to rain favors upon a person.
ins rainy (a.) Abounding with rain; wet; showery; as, rainy weather; a rainy day or season.
ins reach v. to put a hand toward; to arrive at; to come to \ (v. i.) To retch. \ (n.) An effort to vomit. \ (v. t.) To extend; to stretch; to thrust out; to put forth, as a limb, a member, something held, or the like. \ (v. t.) Hence, to deliver by stretching out a member, especially the hand; to give with the hand; to pass to another; to hand over; as, to reach one a book. \ (v. t.) To attain or obtain by stretching forth the hand; to extend some part of the body, or something held by one, so as to touch, strike, grasp, or the like, to reach an object with the hand, or with a spear. \ (v. t.) To strike, hit, or touch with a missile, to reach an object with an arrow, a bullet, or a shell. \ (v. t.) Hence, to extend an action, effort, or influence to; to penetrate to; to pierce, or cut, as far as. \ (v. t.) To extend to; to stretch out as far as; to touch by virtue of extent, his land reaches the river. \ (v. t.) To arrive at; to come to; to get as far as. \ (v. t.) To arrive at by effort of any kind; to attain to; to gain; to be advanced to. \ (v. t.) To understand; to comprehend. \ (v. t.) To overreach; to deceive. \ (v. i.) To stretch out the hand. \ (v. i.) To strain after something; to make efforts. \ (v. i.) To extend in dimension, time, amount, action, influence, etc., attain to, or be equal to, something. \ (v. i.) To sail on the wind, as from one point of tacking to another, or with the wind nearly abeam. \ (n.) The act of stretching or extending; extension; power of reaching or touching with the person, or a limb, or something held or thrown, the fruit is beyond my reach; to be within reach of cannon shot. \ (n.) The power of stretching out or extending action; power of attainment or management; extent of force or capacity. \ (n.) Extent; stretch; expanse; hence, application; result; scope. \ (n.) An extended portion of land or water; a stretch; a straight portion of a stream or river, as from one turn to another; a level stretch, as between locks in a canal; an arm of the sea extending up into the land. \ (n.) An artifice to obtain an advantage. \ (n.) The pole or rod which connects the hind axle with the forward bolster of a wagon.
ins read v. to look at and understand the meaning of written words or numbers \ (n.) Rennet. See 3d Reed. \ (imp. & p. p.) of Read \ (v. t.) To advise; to counsel. \ (v. t.) To interpret; to explain; as, to read a riddle. \ (v. t.) To tell; to declare; to recite. \ (v. t.) To go over, as characters or words, and utter aloud, or recite to one's self inaudibly; to take in the sense of, as of language, by interpreting the characters with which it is expressed; to peruse, to read a discourse; to read the letters of an alphabet; to read figures; to read the notes of music, or to read music; to read a book. \ (v. t.) Hence, to know fully; to comprehend. \ (v. t.) To discover or understand by characters, marks, features, etc.; to learn by observation. \ (v. t.) To make a special study of, as by perusing textbooks, to read theology or law. \ (v. i.) To give advice or counsel. \ (v. i.) To tell; to declare. \ (v. i.) To perform the act of reading, or to go over and utter aloud, the words of a book or other like document. \ (v. i.) To study by reading, he read for the bar. \ (v. i.) To learn by reading. \ (v. i.) To appear in writing or print; to be expressed by, or consist of, certain words or characters, the passage reads thus in the early manuscripts. \ (v. i.) To produce a certain effect when read, that sentence reads queerly. \ (v. t.) Saying; sentence; maxim; hence, word; advice; counsel. See Rede. \ (v.) Reading. \ imp. & p. p. of Read, v. t. & i. \ (a.) Instructed or knowing by reading; versed in books; learned.
ins ready ad. prepared; completed; organized; willing \ (superl.) Prepared for what one is about to do or experience; equipped or supplied with what is needed for some act or event; prepared for immediate movement or action; as, the troops are ready to march; ready for the journey. \ (superl.) Fitted or arranged for immediate use; causing no delay for lack of being prepared or furnished. \ (superl.) Prepared in mind or disposition; not reluctant; willing; free; inclined; disposed. \ (superl.) Not slow or hesitating; quick in action or perception of any kind; dexterous; prompt; easy; expert, a ready apprehension; ready wit; a ready writer or workman. \ (superl.) Offering itself at once; at hand; opportune; convenient; near; easy. \ (superl.) On the point; about; on the brink; -- with a following infinitive. \ (superl.) A word of command, or a position, in the manual of arms, at which the piece is cocked and held in position to execute promptly the next command, which is, aim. \ (adv.) In a state of preparation for immediate action; so as to need no delay. \ (n.) Ready money; cash; -- commonly with the, he was well supplied with the ready. \ (v. t.) To dispose in order.
ins real ad. true; truly existing; not false \ (n.) A small Spanish silver coin; also, a denomination of money of account, formerly the unit of the Spanish monetary system. \ (a.) Royal; regal; kingly. \ (a.) Actually being or existing; not fictitious or imaginary; as, a description of real life. \ (a.) True; genuine; not artificial, counterfeit, or factitious; often opposed to ostensible, the real reason; real Madeira wine; real ginger. \ (a.) Relating to things, not to persons. \ (a.) Having an assignable arithmetical or numerical value or meaning; not imaginary. \ (a.) Pertaining to things fixed, permanent, or immovable, as to lands and tenements, real property, in distinction from personal or movable property. \ (n.) A realist.
ins really (adv.) Royally. \ (adv.) In a real manner; with or in reality; actually; in truth.
ins receive v. to get or accept something given, offered or sent \ (v. t.) To take, as something that is offered, given, committed, sent, paid, or the like; to accept; as, to receive money offered in payment of a debt; to receive a gift, a message, or a letter. \ (v. t.) Hence: To gain the knowledge of; to take into the mind by assent to; to give admission to, as an opinion, notion, etc.; to embrace. \ (v. t.) To allow, as a custom, tradition; to give credence or acceptance to. \ (v. t.) To give admittance to; to permit to enter, as into one's house, presence, company, and the like, to receive a lodger, visitor, ambassador, messenger, etc. \ (v. t.) To admit; to take in; to hold; to contain; to have capacity for; to be able to take in. \ (v. t.) To be affected by something; to suffer; to be subjected to, to receive pleasure or pain; to receive a wound or a blow; to receive damage. \ (v. t.) To take from a thief, as goods known to be stolen. \ (v. t.) To bat back (the ball) when served. \ (v. i.) To receive visitors; to be at home to receive calls, she receives on Tuesdays. \ (v. i.) To return, or bat back, the ball when served, it is your turn to receive.
ins red ad. having the color like that of blood \ . imp. & p. p. of Read. \ (v. t.) To put on order; to make tidy; also, to free from entanglement or embarrassement; -- generally with up; as, to red up a house. \ (superl.) Of the color of blood, or of a tint resembling that color; of the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is furthest from the violet part. \ (n.) The color of blood, or of that part of the spectrum farthest from violet, or a tint resembling these. \ (n.) A red pigment. \ (n.) An abbreviation for Red Republican. See under Red, a. \ (a.) The menses.
ins remember v. to think about the past; opposite forget \ (v. t.) To have ( a notion or idea) come into the mind again, as previously perceived, known, or felt; to have a renewed apprehension of; to bring to mind again; to think of again; to recollect; as, I remember the fact; he remembers the events of his childhood; I cannot remember dates. \ (v. t.) To be capable of recalling when required; to keep in mind; to be continually aware or thoughtful of; to preserve fresh in the memory; to attend to; to think of with gratitude, affection, respect, or any other emotion. \ (v. t.) To put in mind; to remind; -- also used reflexively and impersonally. \ (v. t.) To mention. \ (v. t.) To recall to the mind of another, as in the friendly messages, remember me to him, he wishes to be remembered to you, etc. \ (v. i.) To execise or have the power of memory, some remember better than others.
ins restaurant (n.) An eating house.
ins return v. to go or come back; to bring, give, take or send back
ins rice n. a food grain \ (n.) A well-known cereal grass (Oryza sativa) and its seed. This plant is extensively cultivated in warm climates, and the grain forms a large portion of the food of the inhabitants. In America it grows chiefly on low, moist land, which can be overflowed.
ins rich ad. having much money or goods; having plenty of something \ (superl.) Having an abundance of material possessions; possessed of a large amount of property; well supplied with land, goods, or money; wealthy; opulent; affluent; -- opposed to poor. \ (superl.) Hence, in general, well supplied; abounding; abundant; copious; bountiful; as, a rich treasury; a rich entertainment; a rich crop. \ (superl.) Yielding large returns; productive or fertile; fruitful, rich soil or land; a rich mine. \ (superl.) Composed of valuable or costly materials or ingredients; procured at great outlay; highly valued; precious; sumptuous; costly, a rich dress; rich silk or fur; rich presents. \ (superl.) Abounding in agreeable or nutritive qualities; -- especially applied to articles of food or drink which are high-seasoned or abound in oleaginous ingredients, or are sweet, luscious, and high-flavored, a rich dish; rich cream or soup; rich pastry; rich wine or fruit. \ (superl.) Not faint or delicate; vivid, a rich color. \ (superl.) Full of sweet and harmonius sounds, a rich voice; rich music. \ (superl.) Abounding in beauty; gorgeous, a rich landscape; rich scenery. \ (superl.) Abounding in humor; exciting amusement; entertaining, the scene was a rich one; a rich incident or character. \ (v. t.) To enrich.
ins ride v. to sit on or in and be carried along; to travel by animal, wheeled vehicle, airplane or boat \ (v. i.) To be carried on the back of an animal, as a horse. \ (v. i.) To be borne in a carriage; as, to ride in a coach, in a car, and the like. See Synonym, below. \ (v. i.) To be borne or in a fluid; to float; to lie. \ (v. i.) To be supported in motion; to rest. \ (v. i.) To manage a horse, as an equestrian. \ (v. i.) To support a rider, as a horse; to move under the saddle, a horse rides easy or hard, slow or fast. \ (v. t.) To sit on, so as to be carried, to ride a horse; to ride a bicycle. \ (v. t.) To manage insolently at will; to domineer over. \ (v. t.) To convey, as by riding; to make or do by riding. \ (v. t.) To overlap (each other); -- said of bones or fractured fragments. \ (n.) The act of riding; an excursion on horseback or in a vehicle. \ (n.) A saddle horse. \ (n.) A road or avenue cut in a wood, or through grounds, to be used as a place for riding; a riding.
ins right n. what a person legally and morally should be able to do or have ("It is their right to vote."); ad. agreeing with the facts; good; correct; opposite wrong; on the side that is toward the east when one is facing north; opposite left
ins ring (v. t.) To cause to sound, especially by striking, as a metallic body; as, to ring a bell. \ (v. t.) To make (a sound), as by ringing a bell; to sound. \ (v. t.) To repeat often, loudly, or earnestly. \ (v. i.) To sound, as a bell or other sonorous body, particularly a metallic one. \ (v. i.) To practice making music with bells. \ (v. i.) To sound loud; to resound; to be filled with a ringing or reverberating sound. \ (v. i.) To continue to sound or vibrate; to resound. \ (v. i.) To be filled with report or talk, the whole town rings with his fame. \ (n.) A sound; especially, the sound of vibrating metals, the ring of a bell. \ (n.) Any loud sound; the sound of numerous voices; a sound continued, repeated, or reverberated. \ (n.) A chime, or set of bells harmonically tuned. \ (n.) A circle, or a circular line, or anything in the form of a circular line or hoop. \ (n.) Specifically, a circular ornament of gold or other precious material worn on the finger, or attached to the ear, the nose, or some other part of the person, a wedding ring. \ (n.) A circular area in which races are or run or other sports are performed; an arena. \ (n.) An inclosed space in which pugilists fight; hence, figuratively, prize fighting. \ (n.) A circular group of persons. \ (n.) The plane figure included between the circumferences of two concentric circles. \ (n.) The solid generated by the revolution of a circle, or other figure, about an exterior straight line (as an axis) lying in the same plane as the circle or other figure. \ (n.) An instrument, formerly used for taking the sun's altitude, consisting of a brass ring suspended by a swivel, with a hole at one side through which a solar ray entering indicated the altitude on the graduated inner surface opposite. \ (n.) An elastic band partly or wholly encircling the spore cases of ferns. See Illust. of Sporangium. \ (n.) A clique; an exclusive combination of persons for a selfish purpose, as to control the market, distribute offices, obtain contracts, etc. \ (v. t.) To surround with a ring, or as with a ring; to encircle. \ (v. t.) To make a ring around by cutting away the bark; to girdle, to ring branches or roots. \ (v. t.) To fit with a ring or with rings, as the fingers, or a swine's snout. \ (v. i.) To rise in the air spirally.
ins rise v. to go up; to go higher; to increase; to go from a position of sitting or lying to a position of standing
ins river n. a large amount of water that flows across land into another river, a lake or an ocean \ (n.) One who rives or splits. \ (n.) A large stream of water flowing in a bed or channel and emptying into the ocean, a sea, a lake, or another stream; a stream larger than a rivulet or brook. \ (n.) Fig.: A large stream; copious flow; abundance; as, rivers of blood; rivers of oil. \ (v. i.) To hawk by the side of a river; to fly hawks at river fowl.
ins road n. a long piece of hard ground built between two places so people can walk, drive or ride easily from one place to the other \ (n.) A journey, or stage of a journey. \ (n.) An inroad; an invasion; a raid. \ (n.) A place where one may ride; an open way or public passage for vehicles, persons, and animals; a track for travel, forming a means of communication between one city, town, or place, and another. \ (n.) A place where ships may ride at anchor at some distance from the shore; a roadstead; -- often in the plural; as, Hampton Roads.
ins robot a machine that moves and performs tasks
ins rock n. a hard piece of mineral matter \ (n.) See Roc. \ (n.) A distaff used in spinning; the staff or frame about which flax is arranged, and from which the thread is drawn in spinning. \ (n.) A large concreted mass of stony material; a large fixed stone or crag. See Stone. \ (n.) Any natural deposit forming a part of the earth's crust, whether consolidated or not, including sand, earth, clay, etc., when in natural beds. \ (n.) That which resembles a rock in firmness; a defense; a support; a refuge. \ (n.) Fig.: Anything which causes a disaster or wreck resembling the wreck of a vessel upon a rock. \ (n.) The striped bass. See under Bass. \ (v. t.) To cause to sway backward and forward, as a body resting on a support beneath; as, to rock a cradle or chair; to cause to vibrate; to cause to reel or totter. \ (v. t.) To move as in a cradle; hence, to put to sleep by rocking; to still; to quiet. \ (v. i.) To move or be moved backward and forward; to be violently agitated; to reel; to totter. \ (v. i.) To roll or saway backward and forward upon a support, to rock in a rocking-chair.
ins rocket n. a device shaped like a tube that moves through air or space by burning gases and letting them escape from the back or bottom, sometimes used as a weapon \ (n.) A cruciferous plant (Eruca sativa) sometimes eaten in Europe as a salad. \ (n.) Damewort. \ (n.) Rocket larkspur. See below. \ (n.) An artificial firework consisting of a cylindrical case of paper or metal filled with a composition of combustible ingredients, as niter, charcoal, and sulphur, and fastened to a guiding stick. The rocket is projected through the air by the force arising from the expansion of the gases liberated by combustion of the composition. Rockets are used as projectiles for various purposes, for signals, and also for pyrotechnic display. \ (n.) A blunt lance head used in the joust. \ (v. i.) To rise straight up; said of birds; usually in the present participle or as an adjective.
ins roof (n.) The cover of any building, including the roofing (see Roofing) and all the materials and construction necessary to carry and maintain the same upon the walls or other uprights. In the case of a building with vaulted ceilings protected by an outer roof, some writers call the vault the roof, and the outer protection the roof mask. It is better, however, to consider the vault as the ceiling only, in cases where it has farther covering. \ (n.) That which resembles, or corresponds to, the covering or the ceiling of a house; as, the roof of a cavern; the roof of the mouth. \ (n.) The surface or bed of rock immediately overlying a bed of coal or a flat vein. \ (v. t.) To cover with a roof. \ (v. t.) To inclose in a house; figuratively, to shelter.
ins room n. a separate area within a building with its own walls \ (n.) Unobstructed spase; space which may be occupied by or devoted to any object; compass; extent of place, great or small; as, there is not room for a house; the table takes up too much room. \ (n.) A particular portion of space appropriated for occupancy; a place to sit, stand, or lie; a seat. \ (n.) Especially, space in a building or ship inclosed or set apart by a partition; an apartment or chamber. \ (n.) Place or position in society; office; rank; post; station; also, a place or station once belonging to, or occupied by, another, and vacated. \ (n.) Possibility of admission; ability to admit; opportunity to act; fit occasion, to leave room for hope. \ (v. i.) To occupy a room or rooms; to lodge, they arranged to room together. \ (a.) Spacious; roomy.
ins rope n. a long, thick piece of material made from thinner pieces of material, used for tying \ (n.) A large, stout cord, usually one not less than an inch in circumference, made of strands twisted or braided together. It differs from cord, line, and string, only in its size. See Cordage. \ (n.) A row or string consisting of a number of things united, as by braiding, twining, etc.; as, a rope of onions. \ (n.) The small intestines, the ropes of birds. \ (v. i.) To be formed into rope; to draw out or extend into a filament or thread, as by means of any glutinous or adhesive quality. \ (v. t.) To bind, fasten, or tie with a rope or cord, to rope a bale of goods. \ (v. t.) To connect or fasten together, as a party of mountain climbers, with a rope. \ (v. t.) To partition, separate, or divide off, by means of a rope, so as to include or exclude something, to rope in, or rope off, a plot of ground; to rope out a crowd. \ (v. t.) To lasso (a steer, horse). \ (v. t.) To draw, as with a rope; to entice; to inveigle; to decoy, to rope in customers or voters. \ (v. t.) To prevent from winning (as a horse), by pulling or curbing. \ A guide rope.
ins rose (imp.) of Rise \ imp. of Rise. \ (n.) A flower and shrub of any species of the genus Rosa, of which there are many species, mostly found in the morthern hemispere \ (n.) A knot of ribbon formed like a rose; a rose knot; a rosette, esp. one worn on a shoe. \ (n.) A rose window. See Rose window, below. \ (n.) A perforated nozzle, as of a pipe, spout, etc., for delivering water in fine jets; a rosehead; also, a strainer at the foot of a pump. \ (n.) The erysipelas. \ (n.) The card of the mariner's compass, a circular card with radiating lines, used in other instruments. \ (n.) The color of a rose; rose-red; pink. \ (n.) A diamond. See Rose diamond, below. \ (v. t.) To render rose-colored; to redden; to flush. \ (v. t.) To perfume, as with roses.
ins round ad. having the shape of a ball or circle \ (v. i. & t.) To whisper. \ (a.) Having every portion of the surface or of the circumference equally distant from the center; spherical; circular; having a form approaching a spherical or a circular shape; orbicular; globular; as, a round ball. \ (a.) Having the form of a cylinder; cylindrical, the barrel of a musket is round. \ (a.) Having a curved outline or form; especially, one like the arc of a circle or an ellipse, or a portion of the surface of a sphere; rotund; bulging; protuberant; not angular or pointed, a round arch; round hills. \ (a.) Full; complete; not broken; not fractional; approximately in even units, tens, hundreds, thousands, etc.; -- said of numbers. \ (a.) Not inconsiderable; large; hence, generous; free, a round price. \ (a.) Uttered or emitted with a full tone, a round voice; a round note. \ (a.) Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, making the opening more or less round in shape; rounded; labialized; labial. See Guide to Pronunciation, \ (a.) Outspoken; plain and direct; unreserved; unqualified; not mincing, a round answer; a round oath. \ (a.) Full and smoothly expanded; not defective or abrupt; finished; polished; -- said of style, or of authors with reference to their style. \ (a.) Complete and consistent; fair; just; -- applied to conduct. \ (n.) Anything round, as a circle, a globe, a ring. "The golden round" [the crown]. \ (n.) A series of changes or events ending where it began; a series of like events recurring in continuance; a cycle; a periodical revolution, the round of the seasons; a round of pleasures. \ (n.) A course of action or conduct performed by a number of persons in turn, or one after another, as if seated in a circle. \ (n.) A series of duties or tasks which must be performed in turn, and then repeated. \ (n.) A circular dance. \ (n.) That which goes round a whole circle or company, a round of applause. \ (n.) Rotation, as in office; succession. \ (n.) The step of a ladder; a rundle or rung; also, a crosspiece which joins and braces the legs of a chair. \ (n.) A course ending where it began; a circuit; a beat, one freguently or regulary traversed, the act of traversing a circuit, a watchman's round; the rounds of the postman. \ (n.) A walk performed by a guard or an officer round the rampart of a garrison, or among sentinels, to see that the sentinels are faithful and all things safe, the guard or officer, with his attendants, who performs this duty; -- usually in the plural. \ (n.) A general discharge of firearms by a body of troops in which each soldier fires once. \ (n.) Ammunition for discharging a piece or pieces once, twenty rounds of ammunition were given out. \ (n.) A short vocal piece, resembling a catch in which three or four voices follow each other round in a species of canon in the unison. \ (n.) The time during which prize fighters or boxers are in actual contest without an intermission, as prescribed by their rules; a bout. / 11.
ins rule v. to govern or control; to decide; n. a statement or an order that says how something must be done \ (a.) That which is prescribed or laid down as a guide for conduct or action; a governing direction for a specific purpose; an authoritative enactment; a regulation; a prescription; a precept; as, the rules of various societies; the rules governing a school; a rule of etiquette or propriety; the rules of cricket. \ (a.) Uniform or established course of things. \ (a.) Systematic method or practice, my ule is to rise at six o'clock. \ (a.) Ordibary course of procedure; usual way; comon state or condition of things, it is a rule to which there are many exeptions. \ (a.) Conduct in general; behavior. \ (a.) The act of ruling; administration of law; government; empire; authority; control. \ (a.) An order regulating the practice of the courts, or an order made between parties to an action or a suit. \ (a.) A determinate method prescribed for performing any operation and producing a certain result, a rule for extracting the cube root. \ (a.) A general principle concerning the formation or use of words, or a concise statement thereof; thus, it is a rule in England, that s or es , added to a noun in the singular number, forms the plural of that noun; but "man" forms its plural "men", and is an exception to the rule. \ (a.) A straight strip of wood, metal, or the like, which serves as a guide in drawing a straight line; a ruler. \ (a.) A measuring instrument consisting of a graduated bar of wood, ivory, which is usually marked so as to show inches and fractions of an inch, and jointed so that it may be folded compactly. \ (a.) A thin plate of metal (usually brass) of the same height as the type, and used for printing lines, as between columns on the same page, or in tabular work. \ (a.) A composing rule. See under Conposing. \ (n.) To control the will and actions of; to exercise authority or dominion over; to govern; to manage. \ (n.) To control or direct by influence, counsel, or persuasion; to guide; -- used chiefly in the passive. \ (n.) To establish or settle by, or as by, a rule; to fix by universal or general consent, or by common practice. \ (n.) To require or command by rule; to give as a direction or order of court. \ (n.) To mark with lines made with a pen, pencil, etc., guided by a rule or ruler; to print or mark with lines by means of a rule or other contrivance effecting a similar result, to rule a sheet of paper of a blank book. \ (v. i.) To have power or command; to exercise supreme authority; -- often followed by over. \ (v. i.) To lay down and settle a rule or order of court; to decide an incidental point; to enter a rule. \ (v. i.) To keep within a (certain) range for a time; to be in general, or as a rule, prices ruled lower yesterday than the day before.
ins run v. to move quickly by steps faster than those used for walking \ of Run \ (p. p.) of Run \ (a.) To move, proceed, advance, pass, go, come, etc., swiftly, smoothly, or with quick action; -- said of things animate or inanimate. Hence, to flow, glide, or roll onward, as a stream, a snake, a wagon; to move by quicker action than in walking, as a person, a horse, a dog. \ (a.) To go swiftly; to pass at a swift pace; to hasten. \ (a.) To flee, as from fear or danger. \ (a.) To steal off; to depart secretly. \ (a.) To contend in a race; hence, to enter into a contest; to become a candidate; as, to run for Congress. \ (a.) To pass from one state or condition to another; to come into a certain condition; -- often with in or into, to run into evil practices; to run in debt. \ (a.) To exert continuous activity; to proceed, to run through life; to run in a circle. \ (a.) To pass or go quickly in thought or conversation, to run from one subject to another. \ (a.) To discuss; to continue to think or speak about something; -- with on. \ (a.) To make numerous drafts or demands for payment, as upon a bank; -- with on. \ (a.) To creep, as serpents. \ (a.) To flow, as a liquid; to ascend or descend; to course, rivers run to the sea; sap runs up in the spring; her blood ran cold. \ (a.) To proceed along a surface; to extend; to spread. \ (a.) To become fluid; to melt; to fuse. \ (a.) To turn, as a wheel; to revolve on an axis or pivot, a wheel runs swiftly round. \ (a.) To travel; to make progress; to be moved by mechanical means; to go, the steamboat runs regularly to Albany; the train runs to Chicago. \ (a.) To extend; to reach, the road runs from Philadelphia to New York; the memory of man runneth not to the contrary. \ (a.) To go back and forth from place to place; to ply, the stage runs between the hotel and the station. \ (a.) To make progress; to pass. \ (a.) To continue in operation; to be kept in action or motion, this engine runs night and day; the mill runs six days in the week. \ (a.) To have a course or direction, a line runs east and west. \ (a.) To be in form thus, as a combination of words. \ (a.) To be popularly known; to be generally received. \ (a.) To have growth or development, boys and girls run up rapidly. \ (a.) To tend, as to an effect or consequence; to incline. \ (a.) To spread and blend together; to unite, colors run in washing. \ (a.) To have a legal course; to be attached; to continue in force, effect, or operation; to follow; to go in company, certain covenants run with the land. \ (a.) To continue without falling due; to hold good, a note has thirty days to run. \ (a.) To discharge pus or other matter, an ulcer runs. \ (a.) To be played on the stage a number of successive days or nights, the piece ran for six months. \ (a.) To sail before the wind, in distinction from reaching or sailing closehauled; -- said of vessels. \ (v. i.) To pursue in thought; to carry in contemplation. \ (v. i.) To drive or force; to cause, or permit, to be driven.
ins sad ad. not happy \ (supperl.) Sated; satisfied; weary; tired. \ (supperl.) Heavy; weighty; ponderous; close; hard. \ (supperl.) Dull; grave; dark; somber; -- said of colors. \ (supperl.) Serious; sober; steadfast; not light or frivolous. \ (supperl.) Affected with grief or unhappiness; cast down with affliction; downcast; gloomy; mournful. \ (supperl.) Afflictive; calamitous; causing sorrow; as, a sad accident; a sad misfortune. \ (supperl.) Hence, bad; naughty; troublesome; wicked. \ (v. t.) To make sorrowful; to sadden.
ins safe ad. away from harm or danger \ (superl.) Free from harm, injury, or risk; untouched or unthreatened by danger or injury; unharmed; unhurt; secure; whole; as, safe from disease; safe from storms; safe from foes. \ (superl.) Conferring safety; securing from harm; not exposing to danger; confining securely; to be relied upon; not dangerous, a safe harbor; a safe bridge, etc. \ (superl.) Incapable of doing harm; no longer dangerous; in secure care or custody, the prisoner is safe. \ (n.) A place for keeping things in safety. \ (n.) A strong and fireproof receptacle (as a movable chest of steel, etc., or a closet or vault of brickwork) for containing money, valuable papers, or the like. \ (n.) A ventilated or refrigerated chest or closet for securing provisions from noxious animals or insects. \ (v. t.) To render safe; to make right.
ins salad (n.) A preparation of vegetables, as lettuce, celery, water cress, onions, etc., usually dressed with salt, vinegar, oil, and spice, and eaten for giving a relish to other food; as, lettuce salad; tomato salad \ (n.) A dish composed of chopped meat or fish, esp. chicken or lobster, mixed with lettuce or other vegetables, and seasoned with oil, mustard, and other condiments, chicken salad; lobster salad.
ins sale (n.) See 1st Sallow. \ (v. t.) The act of selling; the transfer of property, or a contract to transfer the ownership of property, from one person to another for a valuable consideration, or for a price in money. \ (v. t.) Opportunity of selling; demand; market. \ (v. t.) Public disposal to the highest bidder, or exposure of goods in market; auction.
ins salt n. a white substance found in sea water and in the ground, used to affect the taste of food \ (n.) The chloride of sodium, a substance used for seasoning food, for the preservation of meat, etc. It is found native in the earth, and is also produced, by evaporation and crystallization, from sea water and other water impregnated with saline particles. \ (n.) Hence, flavor; taste; savor; smack; seasoning. \ (n.) Hence, also, piquancy; wit; sense; as, Attic salt. \ (n.) A dish for salt at table; a saltcellar. \ (n.) A sailor; -- usually qualified by old. \ (n.) The neutral compound formed by the union of an acid and a base; thus, sulphuric acid and iron form the salt sulphate of iron or green vitriol. \ (n.) Fig.: That which preserves from corruption or error; that which purifies; a corrective; an antiseptic, an allowance or deduction, his statements must be taken with a grain of salt. \ (n.) Any mineral salt used as an aperient or cathartic, especially Epsom salts, Rochelle salt, or Glauber's salt. \ (n.) Marshes flooded by the tide. \ (n.) Of or relating to salt; abounding in, or containing, salt; prepared or preserved with, or tasting of; salted, salt beef; salt water. \ (n.) Overflowed with, or growing in, salt water, a salt marsh; salt grass. \ (n.) Fig.: Bitter; sharp; pungent. \ (n.) Fig.: Salacious; lecherous; lustful. \ (v. t.) To sprinkle, impregnate, or season with salt; to preserve with salt or in brine; to supply with salt, to salt fish, beef, or pork; to salt cattle. \ (v. t.) To fill with salt between the timbers and planks, as a ship, for the preservation of the timber. \ (v. i.) To deposit salt as a saline solution, the brine begins to salt. \ (n.) The act of leaping or jumping; a leap. \ Sulphate of magnesia having cathartic qualities; -- originally prepared by boiling down the mineral waters at Epsom, England, -- whence the name; afterwards prepared from sea water; but now from certain minerals, as from siliceous hydrate of magnesia.
ins same ad. not different; not changed; like another or others \ (v. i.) Not different or other; not another or others; identical; unchanged. \ (v. i.) Of like kind, species, sort, dimensions, or the like; not differing in character or in the quality or qualities compared; corresponding; not discordant; similar; like. \ (v. i.) Just mentioned, or just about to be mentioned.
ins sand n. extremely small pieces of crushed rock found in large amounts in deserts and on coasts \ (n.) Fine particles of stone, esp. of siliceous stone, but not reduced to dust; comminuted stone in the form of loose grains, which are not coherent when wet. \ (n.) A single particle of such stone. \ (n.) The sand in the hourglass; hence, a moment or interval of time; the term or extent of one's life. \ (n.) Tracts of land consisting of sand, like the deserts of Arabia and Africa; also, extensive tracts of sand exposed by the ebb of the tide. \ (n.) Courage; pluck; grit. \ (v. t.) To sprinkle or cover with sand. \ (v. t.) To drive upon the sand. \ (v. t.) To bury (oysters) beneath drifting sand or mud. \ (v. t.) To mix with sand for purposes of fraud; as, to sand sugar.
ins sandwich (n.) Two pieces of bread and butter with a thin slice of meat, cheese, or the like, between them. \ (v. t.) To make into a sandwich; also, figuratively, to insert between portions of something dissimilar; to form of alternate parts or things, or alternating layers of a different nature; to interlard.
ins save v. to make safe; to remove from harm; to keep for future use \ (n.) The herb sage, or salvia. \ (a.) To make safe; to procure the safety of; to preserve from injury, destruction, or evil of any kind; to rescue from impending danger; as, to save a house from the flames. \ (a.) Specifically, to deliver from sin and its penalty; to rescue from a state of condemnation and spiritual death, and bring into a state of spiritual life. \ (a.) To keep from being spent or lost; to secure from waste or expenditure; to lay up; to reserve. \ (a.) To rescue from something undesirable or hurtful; to prevent from doing something; to spare. \ (a.) To hinder from doing, suffering, or happening; to obviate the necessity of; to prevent; to spare. \ (a.) To hold possession or use of; to escape loss of. \ (v. i.) To avoid unnecessary expense or expenditure; to prevent waste; to be economical. \ (a.) Except; excepting; not including; leaving out; deducting; reserving; saving. \ (conj.) Except; unless.
ins say v. to speak; to express in words \ (imp.) Saw. \ (n.) Trial by sample; assay; sample; specimen; smack. \ (n.) Tried quality; temper; proof. \ (n.) Essay; trial; attempt. \ (v. t.) To try; to assay. \ (n.) A kind of silk or satin. \ (n.) A delicate kind of serge, or woolen cloth. \ (v. t.) To utter or express in words; to tell; to speak; to declare; as, he said many wise things. \ (v. t.) To repeat; to rehearse; to recite; to pronounce, to say a lesson. \ (v. t.) To announce as a decision or opinion; to state positively; to assert; hence, to form an opinion upon; to be sure about; to be determined in mind as to. \ (v. t.) To mention or suggest as an estimate, hypothesis, or approximation, to suppose; -- in the imperative, followed sometimes by the subjunctive, he had, say fifty thousand dollars; the fox had run, say ten miles. \ (v. i.) To speak; to express an opinion; to make answer; to reply. \ (v. t.) A speech; something said; an expression of opinion; a current story; a maxim or proverb.
ins scene (n.) The structure on which a spectacle or play is exhibited; the part of a theater in which the acting is done, with its adjuncts and decorations; the stage. \ (n.) The decorations and fittings of a stage, representing the place in which the action is supposed to go on; one of the slides, or other devices, used to give an appearance of reality to the action of a play; as, to paint scenes; to shift the scenes; to go behind the scenes. \ (n.) So much of a play as passes without change of locality or time, or important change of character; hence, a subdivision of an act; a separate portion of a play, subordinate to the act, but differently determined in different plays, an act of four scenes. \ (n.) The place, time, circumstance, etc., in which anything occurs, or in which the action of a story, play, or the like, is laid; surroundings amid which anything is set before the imagination; place of occurrence, exhibition, or action. \ (n.) An assemblage of objects presented to the view at once; a series of actions and events exhibited in their connection; a spectacle; a show; an exhibition; a view. \ (n.) A landscape, or part of a landscape; scenery. \ (n.) An exhibition of passionate or strong feeling before others; often, an artifical or affected action, or course of action, done for effect; a theatrical display. \ (v. t.) To exhibit as a scene; to make a scene of; to display.
ins school n. a place for education; a place where people go to learn \ (n.) A shoal; a multitude; as, a school of fish. \ (n.) A place for learned intercourse and instruction; an institution for learning; an educational establishment; a place for acquiring knowledge and mental training, the school of the prophets. \ (n.) A place of primary instruction; an establishment for the instruction of children, a primary school; a common school; a grammar school. \ (n.) A session of an institution of instruction. \ (n.) One of the seminaries for teaching logic, metaphysics, and theology, which were formed in the Middle Ages, and which were characterized by academical disputations and subtilties of reasoning. \ (n.) The room or hall in English universities where the examinations for degrees and honors are held. \ (n.) An assemblage of scholars; those who attend upon instruction in a school of any kind; a body of pupils. \ (n.) The disciples or followers of a teacher; those who hold a common doctrine, or accept the same teachings; a sect or denomination in philosophy, theology, science, medicine, politics, etc. \ (n.) The canons, precepts, or body of opinion or practice, sanctioned by the authority of a particular class or age, he was a gentleman of the old school. \ (n.) Figuratively, any means of knowledge or discipline, the school of experience. \ (v. t.) To train in an institution of learning; to educate at a school; to teach. \ (v. t.) To tutor; to chide and admonish; to reprove; to subject to systematic discipline; to train. \ A French school of the middle of the 19th century centering in the village of Barbizon near the forest of Fontainebleau. Its members went straight to nature in disregard of academic tradition, treating their subjects faithfully and with poetic feeling for color, light, and atmosphere. It is exemplified, esp. in landscapes, by Corot, Rousseau, Daubigny, Jules Dupre, and Diaz. Associated with them are certain painters of animals, as Troyon and Jaque, and of peasant life, as Millet and Jules Breton.
ins science n. the study of nature and the actions of natural things, and the knowledge gained about them \ (n.) Knowledge; knowledge of principles and causes; ascertained truth of facts. \ (n.) Accumulated and established knowledge, which has been systematized and formulated with reference to the discovery of general truths or the operation of general laws; knowledge classified and made available in work, life, or the search for truth; comprehensive, profound, or philosophical knowledge. \ (n.) Especially, such knowledge when it relates to the physical world and its phenomena, the nature, constitution, and forces of matter, the qualities and functions of living tissues, etc.; -- called also natural science, and physical science. \ (n.) Any branch or department of systematized knowledge considered as a distinct field of investigation or object of study; as, the science of astronomy, of chemistry, or of mind. \ (n.) Art, skill, or expertness, regarded as the result of knowledge of laws and principles. \ (v. t.) To cause to become versed in science; to make skilled; to instruct.
ins sea n. a large area of salt water, usually part of an ocean \ (n.) One of the larger bodies of salt water, less than an ocean, found on the earth's surface; a body of salt water of second rank, generally forming part of, or connecting with, an ocean or a larger sea; as, the Mediterranean Sea; the Sea of Marmora; the North Sea; the Carribean Sea. \ (n.) An inland body of water, esp. if large or if salt or brackish, the Caspian Sea; the Sea of Aral; sometimes, a small fresh-water lake, the Sea of Galilee. \ (n.) The ocean; the whole body of the salt water which covers a large part of the globe. \ (n.) The swell of the ocean or other body of water in a high wind; motion of the water's surface; also, a single wave; a billow, there was a high sea after the storm; the vessel shipped a sea. \ (n.) A great brazen laver in the temple at Jerusalem; -- so called from its size. \ (n.) Fig.: Anything resembling the sea in vastness, a sea of glory.
ins season n. one of the four periods of the year that is based on the earth's position toward the sun (spring, summer, autumn, winter); a period of time based on different weather conditions ("dry season", "rainy season"); a period during the year when something usually happens ("baseball season") \ (n.) One of the divisions of the year, marked by alternations in the length of day and night, or by distinct conditions of temperature, moisture, etc., caused mainly by the relative position of the earth with respect to the sun. In the north temperate zone, four seasons, namely, spring, summer, autumn, and winter, are generally recognized. Some parts of the world have three seasons, -- the dry, the rainy, and the cold; other parts have but two, -- the dry and the rainy. \ (n.) Hence, a period of time, especially as regards its fitness for anything contemplated or done; a suitable or convenient time; proper conjuncture; as, the season for planting; the season for rest. \ (n.) A period of time not very long; a while; a time. \ (n.) That which gives relish; seasoning. \ (v. t.) To render suitable or appropriate; to prepare; to fit. \ (v. t.) To fit for any use by time or habit; to habituate; to accustom; to inure; to ripen; to mature, to season one to a climate. \ (v. t.) Hence, to prepare by drying or hardening, or removal of natural juices, to season timber. \ (v. t.) To fit for taste; to render palatable; to give zest or relish to; to spice, to season food. \ (v. t.) Hence, to fit for enjoyment; to render agrecable. \ (v. t.) To qualify by admixture; to moderate; to temper. \ (v. t.) To imbue; to tinge or taint. \ (v. t.) To copulate with; to impregnate. \ (v. i.) To become mature; to grow fit for use; to become adapted to a climate. \ (v. i.) To become dry and hard, by the escape of the natural juices, or by being penetrated with other substance, timber seasons in the sun. \ (v. i.) To give token; to savor.
ins seat n. a thing to sit on; a place to sit or the right to sit there ("a seat in parliament") \ (n.) The place or thing upon which one sits; hence; anything made to be sat in or upon, as a chair, bench, stool, saddle, or the like. \ (n.) The place occupied by anything, or where any person or thing is situated, resides, or abides; a site; an abode, a station; a post; a situation. \ (n.) That part of a thing on which a person sits; as, the seat of a chair or saddle; the seat of a pair of pantaloons. \ (n.) A sitting; a right to sit; regular or appropriate place of sitting, a seat in a church; a seat for the season in the opera house. \ (n.) Posture, or way of sitting, on horseback. \ (n.) A part or surface on which another part or surface rests, a valve seat. \ (v. t.) To place on a seat; to cause to sit down, to seat one's self. \ (v. t.) To cause to occupy a post, site, situation, or the like; to station; to establish; to fix; to settle. \ (v. t.) To assign a seat to, or the seats of; to give a sitting to, to seat a church, or persons in a church. \ (v. t.) To fix; to set firm. \ (v. t.) To settle; to plant with inhabitants; as to seat a country. \ (v. t.) To put a seat or bottom in, to seat a chair. \ (v. i.) To rest; to lie down.
ins second ad. the one that comes after the first \ (a.) Immediately following the first; next to the first in order of place or time; hence, occuring again; another; other. \ (a.) Next to the first in value, power, excellence, dignity, or rank; secondary; subordinate; inferior. \ (a.) Being of the same kind as another that has preceded, like a protype; as, a second Cato; a second Troy; a second deluge. \ (n.) One who, or that which, follows, or comes after; one next and inferior in place, time, rank, importance, or power. \ (n.) One who follows or attends another for his support and aid; a backer; an assistant; specifically, one who acts as another's aid in a duel. \ (n.) Aid; assistance; help. \ (n.) An article of merchandise of a grade inferior to the best; esp., a coarse or inferior kind of flour. \ (a.) The sixtieth part of a minute of time or of a minute of space, that is, the second regular subdivision of the degree, sound moves about 1,140 English feet in a second; five minutes and ten seconds north of this place. \ (a.) In the duodecimal system of mensuration, the twelfth part of an inch or prime; a line. See Inch, and Prime, n., 8. \ (n.) The interval between any tone and the tone which is represented on the degree of the staff next above it. \ (n.) The second part in a concerted piece; -- often popularly applied to the alto. \ (a.) To follow in the next place; to succeed; to alternate. \ (a.) To follow or attend for the purpose of assisting; to support; to back; to act as the second of; to assist; to forward; to encourage. \ (a.) Specifically, as a motion or proposal, by adding one's voice to that of the mover or proposer.
ins secret n. something known only to a few and kept from general knowledge; ad. hidden from others; known only to a few \ (a.) Hidden; concealed; as, secret treasure; secret plans; a secret vow. \ (a.) Withdraw from general intercourse or notice; in retirement or secrecy; secluded. \ (a.) Faithful to a secret; not inclined to divulge or betray confidence; secretive. \ (a.) Separate; distinct. \ (a.) Something studiously concealed; a thing kept from general knowledge; what is not revealed, or not to be revealed. \ (a.) A thing not discovered; what is unknown or unexplained; a mystery. \ (a.) The parts which modesty and propriety require to be concealed; the genital organs. \ (v. t.) To keep secret.
ins see v. to know or sense through the eyes; to understand or know \ (n.) A seat; a site; a place where sovereign power is exercised. \ (n.) Specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York. (b) The seat of an archibishop; a province or jurisdiction of an archibishop, an archiepiscopal see. (c) The seat, place, or office of the pope, or Roman pontiff, the papal see. (d) The pope or his court at Rome, to appeal to the see of Rome. \ (v. t.) To perceive by the eye; to have knowledge of the existence and apparent qualities of by the organs of sight; to behold; to descry; to view. \ (v. t.) To perceive by mental vision; to form an idea or conception of; to note with the mind; to observe; to discern; to distinguish; to understand; to comprehend; to ascertain. \ (v. t.) To follow with the eyes, or as with the eyes; to watch; to regard attentivelly; to look after. \ (v. t.) To have an interview with; especially, to make a call upon; to visit, to go to see a friend. \ (v. t.) To fall in with; to have intercourse or communication with; hence, to have knowledge or experience of, to see military service. \ (v. t.) To accompany in person; to escort; to wait upon, to see one home; to see one aboard the cars. \ (v. i.) To have the power of sight, or of perceiving by the proper organs; to possess or employ the sense of vision, he sees distinctly. \ (v. i.) Figuratively: To have intellectual apprehension; to perceive; to know; -- often followed by a preposition, as through, or into. \ (v. i.) To be attentive; to take care; to give heed; -- generally with to, to see to the house. \ (v. t.) In poker and similar games at cards, to meet (a bet), or to equal the bet of (a player), by staking the same sum.
ins seem v. to appear to be ("She seems to be in good health.") \ (a.) To appear, or to appear to be; to have a show or semblance; to present an appearance; to look; to strike one's apprehension or fancy as being; to be taken as. \ (v. t.) To befit; to beseem.
ins sell v. to give something in exchange for money \ (n.) Self. \ (n.) A sill. \ (n.) A cell; a house. \ (n.) A saddle for a horse. \ (n.) A throne or lofty seat. \ (v. t.) To transfer to another for an equivalent; to give up for a valuable consideration; to dispose of in return for something, especially for money. \ (v. t.) To make a matter of bargain and sale of; to accept a price or reward for, as for a breach of duty, trust, or the like; to betray. \ (v. t.) To impose upon; to trick; to deceive; to make a fool of; to cheat. \ (v. i.) To practice selling commodities. \ (v. i.) To be sold; as, corn sells at a good price. \ (n.) An imposition; a cheat; a hoax.
ins send v. to cause to go; to permit to go; to cause to be carried, taken or directed to or away from a place \ (v. t.) To cause to go in any manner; to dispatch; to commission or direct to go; as, to send a messenger. \ (v. t.) To give motion to; to cause to be borne or carried; to procure the going, transmission, or delivery of, to send a message. \ (v. t.) To emit; to impel; to cast; to throw; to hurl, to send a ball, an arrow, or the like. \ (v. t.) To cause to be or to happen; to bestow; to inflict; to grant; -- sometimes followed by a dependent proposition. \ (v. i.) To dispatch an agent or messenger to convey a message, or to do an errand. \ (v. i.) To pitch, the ship sends forward so violently as to endanger her masts. \ (n.) The impulse of a wave by which a vessel is carried bodily.
ins set v. to put in place or position; to establish a time, price or limit \ (imp. & p. p.) of Set \ (v. t.) To cause to sit; to make to assume a specified position or attitude; to give site or place to; to place; to put; to fix; as, to set a house on a stone foundation; to set a book on a shelf; to set a dish on a table; to set a chest or trunk on its bottom or on end. \ (v. t.) Hence, to attach or affix (something) to something else, or in or upon a certain place. \ (v. t.) To make to assume specified place, condition, or occupation; to put in a certain condition or state (described by the accompanying words); to cause to be. \ (v. t.) To fix firmly; to make fast, permanent, or stable; to render motionless; to give an unchanging place, form, or condition to. \ (v. t.) To cause to stop or stick; to obstruct; to fasten to a spot; hence, to occasion difficulty to; to embarrass, to set a coach in the mud. \ (v. t.) To fix beforehand; to determine, to make unyielding or obstinate; to render stiff, unpliant, or rigid, to set one's countenance. \ (v. t.) To fix in the ground, as a post or a tree; to plant, to set pear trees in an orchard. \ (v. t.) To fix, as a precious stone, in a border of metal; to place in a setting, to place in or amid something which serves as a setting, to set glass in a sash. \ (v. t.) To render stiff or solid; especially, to convert into curd; to curdle, to set milk for cheese. \ (v. t.) To put into a desired position or condition; to adjust; to regulate; to adapt. \ (v. t.) To put in order in a particular manner; to prepare, to set (that is, to hone) a razor; to set a saw. \ (v. t.) To extend and bring into position; to spread, to set the sails of a ship. \ (v. t.) To give a pitch to, as a tune; to start by fixing the keynote, to set a psalm. \ (v. t.) To reduce from a dislocated or fractured state; to replace, to set a broken bone. \ (v. t.) To make to agree with some standard, to set a watch or a clock. \ (v. t.) To lower into place and fix solidly, as the blocks of cut stone in a structure. \ (v. t.) To stake at play; to wager; to risk. \ (v. t.) To fit with music; to adapt, as words to notes; to prepare for singing. \ (v. t.) To determine; to appoint; to assign, to set a time for a meeting; to set a price on a horse. \ (v. t.) To adorn with something infixed or affixed; to stud; to variegate with objects placed here and there. \ (v. t.) To value; to rate; -- with at. \ (v. t.) To point out the seat or position of, as birds, or other game; -- said of hunting dogs. \ (v. t.) To establish as a rule; to furnish; to prescribe, to set an example; to set lessons to be learned. \ (v. t.) To suit; to become, it sets him ill. \ (v. t.) To compose; to arrange in words, lines, etc., to set type; to set a page. \ (v. i.) To pass below the horizon; to go down; to decline; to sink out of sight; to come to an end. \ (v. i.) To fit music to words. \ (v. i.) To place plants or shoots in the ground; to plant. \ (v. i.) To congeal; to concrete; to solidify.
ins seven (a.) One more than six; six and one added; as, seven days make one week. \ (n.) The number greater by one than six; seven units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing seven units, as 7, or vii.
ins seventeen (a.) One more than sixteen; ten and seven added; as, seventeen years. \ (n.) The number greater by one than sixteen; the sum of ten and seven; seventeen units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol denoting seventeen units, as 17, or xvii.
ins seventy (a.) Seven times ten; one more than sixty-nine. \ (n.) The sum of seven times ten; seventy units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing seventy units, as 70, or lxx.
ins several ad. three or more, but not many \ (a.) Separate; distinct; particular; single. \ (a.) Diverse; different; various. \ (a.) Consisting of a number more than two, but not very many; divers; sundry; as, several persons were present when the event took place. \ (adv.) By itself; severally. \ (n.) Each particular taken singly; an item; a detail; an individual. \ (n.) Persons oe objects, more than two, but not very many. \ (n.) An inclosed or separate place; inclosure.
ins shake v. to move or cause to move in short, quick movements \ obs. p. p. of Shake. \ (v.) To cause to move with quick or violent vibrations; to move rapidly one way and the other; to make to tremble or shiver; to agitate. \ (v.) Fig.: To move from firmness; to weaken the stability of; to cause to waver; to impair the resolution of. \ (v.) To give a tremulous tone to; to trill; as, to shake a note in music. \ (v.) To move or remove by agitating; to throw off by a jolting or vibrating motion; to rid one's self of; -- generally with an adverb, as off, out, etc., to shake fruit down from a tree. \ (v. i.) To be agitated with a waving or vibratory motion; to tremble; to shiver; to quake; to totter. \ (n.) The act or result of shaking; a vacillating or wavering motion; a rapid motion one way and other; a trembling, quaking, or shivering; agitation. \ (n.) A fissure or crack in timber, caused by its being dried too suddenly. \ (n.) A fissure in rock or earth. \ (n.) A rapid alternation of a principal tone with another represented on the next degree of the staff above or below it; a trill. \ (n.) One of the staves of a hogshead or barrel taken apart. \ (n.) A shook of staves and headings. \ (n.) The redshank; -- so called from the nodding of its head while on the ground.
ins shall (v. i. & auxiliary.) To owe; to be under obligation for. \ (v. i. & auxiliary.) To be obliged; must. \ (v. i. & auxiliary.) As an auxiliary, shall indicates a duty or necessity whose obligation is derived from the person speaking; as, you shall go; he shall go; that is, I order or promise your going. It thus ordinarily expresses, in the second and third persons, a command, a threat, or a promise. If the auxillary be emphasized, the command is made more imperative, the promise or that more positive and sure. It is also employed in the language of prophecy, "the day shall come when . . . , " since a promise or threat and an authoritative prophecy nearly coincide in significance. In shall with the first person, the necessity of the action is sometimes implied as residing elsewhere than in the speaker, I shall suffer; we shall see; and there is always a less distinct and positive assertion of his volition than is indicated by will. "I shall go" implies nearly a simple futurity; more exactly, a foretelling or an expectation of my going, in which, naturally enough, a certain degree of plan or intention may be included; emphasize the shall, and the event is described as certain to occur, and the expression approximates in meaning to our emphatic "I will go." In a question, the relation of speaker and source of obligation is of course transferred to the person addressed, "Shall you go?" (answer, "I shall go"); "Shall he go?" i. e., "Do you require or promise his going?" (answer, "He shall go".) The same relation is transferred to either second or third person in such phrases as "You say, or think;" "He says, or thinks, he shall go." After a conditional conjunction (as if, whether) shall is used in all persons to express futurity simply, if I, you, or he shall say they are right. Should is everywhere used in the same connection and the same senses as shall, as its imperfect. It also expresses duty or moral obligation, he should do it whether he will or not. In the early English, and hence in our English Bible, shall is the auxiliary mainly used, in all the persons, to express simple futurity. (Cf. Will, v. t.) Shall may be used elliptically; thus, with an adverb or other word expressive of motion go may be omitted.
ins shape v. to give form to; n. the form of something, especially how it looks \ (n.) To form or create; especially, to mold or make into a particular form; to give proper form or figure to. \ (n.) To adapt to a purpose; to regulate; to adjust; to direct; as, to shape the course of a vessel. \ (n.) To image; to conceive; to body forth. \ (n.) To design; to prepare; to plan; to arrange. \ (v. i.) To suit; to be adjusted or conformable. \ (n.) Character or construction of a thing as determining its external appearance; outward aspect; make; figure; form; guise, the shape of a tree; the shape of the head; an elegant shape. \ (n.) That which has form or figure; a figure; an appearance; a being. \ (n.) A model; a pattern; a mold. \ (n.) Form of embodiment, as in words, as of thought or conception; concrete embodiment or example, as of some quality. \ (n.) Dress for disguise; guise. \ (n.) A rolled or hammered piece, as a bar, beam, angle iron, etc., having a cross section different from merchant bar. \ (n.) A piece which has been roughly forged nearly to the form it will receive when completely forged or fitted.
ins sharp ad. having a thin edge or small point that can cut or hurt; causing hurt or pain \ (superl.) Having a very thin edge or fine point; of a nature to cut or pierce easily; not blunt or dull; keen. \ (superl.) Terminating in a point or edge; not obtuse or rounded; somewhat pointed or edged; peaked or ridged; as, a sharp hill; sharp features. \ (superl.) Affecting the sense as if pointed or cutting, keen, penetrating, acute: to the taste or smell, pungent, acid, sour, as ammonia has a sharp taste and odor; to the hearing, piercing, shrill, as a sharp sound or voice; to the eye, instantaneously brilliant, dazzling, as a sharp flash. \ (superl.) High in pitch; acute, a sharp note or tone. \ (superl.) Raised a semitone in pitch, C sharp (C/), which is a half step, or semitone, higher than C. \ (superl.) So high as to be out of tune, or above true pitch, the tone is sharp; that instrument is sharp. Opposed in all these senses to flat. \ (superl.) Very trying to the feelings; severe; painful; distressing, sharp pain, weather; a sharp and frosty air. \ (superl.) Cutting in language or import; biting; sarcastic; cruel; harsh; rigorous, a sharp rebuke. \ (superl.) Of keen perception; quick to discern or distinguish; having nice discrimination; sagacious; clever, a sharp eye; sharp sight, hearing, or judgment. \ (superl.) Eager in pursuit; keen in quest; impatient for gratification, a sharp appetite. \ (superl.) Fierce; ardent; fiery; violent; impetuous. \ (superl.) Keenly or unduly attentive to one's own interest; close and exact in dealing; shrewd, a sharp dealer; a sharp customer. \ (superl.) Composed of hard, angular grains; gritty, sharp sand. \ (superl.) Steep; precipitous; abrupt, a sharp ascent or descent; a sharp turn or curve. \ (superl.) Uttered in a whisper, or with the breath alone, without voice, as certain consonants, such as p, k, t, f; surd; nonvocal; aspirated. \ (adv.) To a point or edge; piercingly; eagerly; sharply. \ (adv.) Precisely; exactly, we shall start at ten o'clock sharp. \ (n.) A sharp tool or weapon. \ (n.) The character [/] used to indicate that the note before which it is placed is to be raised a half step, in pitch. \ (n.) A sharp tone or note. \ (n.) A portion of a stream where the water runs very rapidly. \ (n.) A sewing needle having a very slender point; a needle of the most pointed of the three grades, blunts, betweens, and sharps. \ (n.) Same as Middlings, 1. \ (n.) An expert. \ (v. t.) To sharpen. \ (v. t.) To raise above the proper pitch; to elevate the tone of; especially, to raise a half step, above the natural tone. \ (v. i.) To play tricks in bargaining; to act the sharper. \ (v. i.) To sing above the proper pitch.
ins she pro. the girl or woman who is being spoken about \ (obj.) This or that female; the woman understood or referred to; the animal of the female sex, or object personified as feminine, which was spoken of. \ (obj.) A woman; a female; -- used substantively.
ins sheep n. a farm animal used for its meat and hair \ (n. sing. & pl.) Any one of several species of ruminants of the genus Ovis, native of the higher mountains of both hemispheres, but most numerous in Asia. \ (n. sing. & pl.) A weak, bashful, silly fellow. \ (n. sing. & pl.) Fig.: The people of God, as being under the government and protection of Christ, the great Shepherd.
ins shine v. to aim a light; to give bright light; to be bright; to clean to make bright \ (v. i.) To emit rays of light; to give light; to beam with steady radiance; to exhibit brightness or splendor; as, the sun shines by day; the moon shines by night. \ (v. i.) To be bright by reflection of light; to gleam; to be glossy, to shine like polished silver. \ (v. i.) To be effulgent in splendor or beauty. \ (v. i.) To be eminent, conspicuous, or distinguished; to exhibit brilliant intellectual powers, to shine in courts; to shine in conversation. \ (v. t.) To cause to shine, as a light. \ (v. t.) To make bright; to cause to shine by reflected light, in hunting, to shine the eyes of a deer at night by throwing a light on them. \ (n.) The quality or state of shining; brightness; luster, gloss; polish; sheen. \ (n.) Sunshine; fair weather. \ (n.) A liking for a person; a fancy. \ (n.) Caper; antic; row. \ (v. i.) Shining; sheen.
ins ship v. to transport; n. a large boat \ (n.) Pay; reward. \ (n.) Any large seagoing vessel. \ (n.) Specifically, a vessel furnished with a bowsprit and three masts (a mainmast, a foremast, and a mizzenmast), each of which is composed of a lower mast, a topmast, and a topgallant mast, and square-rigged on all masts. See Illustation in Appendix. \ (n.) A dish or utensil (originally fashioned like the hull of a ship) used to hold incense. \ (v. t.) To put on board of a ship, or vessel of any kind, for transportation; to send by water. \ (v. t.) By extension, in commercial usage, to commit to any conveyance for transportation to a distance; as, to ship freight by railroad. \ (v. t.) Hence, to send away; to get rid of. \ (v. t.) To engage or secure for service on board of a ship, to ship seamen. \ (v. t.) To receive on board ship, to ship a sea. \ (v. t.) To put in its place, to ship the tiller or rudder. \ (v. i.) To engage to serve on board of a vessel, to ship on a man-of-war. \ (v. i.) To embark on a ship.
ins shirt (n.) A loose under-garment for the upper part of the body, made of cotton, linen, or other material; -- formerly used of the under-garment of either sex, now commonly restricted to that worn by men and boys. \ (v. t. & i.) To cover or clothe with a shirt, or as with a shirt.
ins shoe n. a covering for the foot \ (n.) A covering for the human foot, usually made of leather, having a thick and somewhat stiff sole and a lighter top. It differs from a boot on not extending so far up the leg. \ (n.) Anything resembling a shoe in form, position, or use. \ (n.) A plate or rim of iron nailed to the hoof of an animal to defend it from injury. \ (n.) A band of iron or steel, or a ship of wood, fastened to the bottom of the runner of a sleigh, or any vehicle which slides on the snow. \ (n.) A drag, or sliding piece of wood or iron, placed under the wheel of a loaded vehicle, to retard its motion in going down a hill. \ (n.) The part of a railroad car brake which presses upon the wheel to retard its motion. \ (n.) A trough-shaped or spout-shaped member, put at the bottom of the water leader coming from the eaves gutter, so as to throw the water off from the building. \ (n.) The trough or spout for conveying the grain from the hopper to the eye of the millstone. \ (n.) An inclined trough in an ore-crushing mill. \ (n.) An iron socket or plate to take the thrust of a strut or rafter. \ (n.) An iron socket to protect the point of a wooden pile. \ (n.) A plate, or notched piece, interposed between a moving part and the stationary part on which it bears, to take the wear and afford means of adjustment; -- called also slipper, and gib. \ (n.) To furnish with a shoe or shoes; to put a shoe or shoes on; as, to shoe a horse, a sled, an anchor. \ (n.) To protect or ornament with something which serves the purpose of a shoe; to tip. \ (n.) The outer cover or tread of a pneumatic tire, esp. for an automobile.
ins shop imp. of Shape. Shaped. \ (n.) A building or an apartment in which goods, wares, drugs, etc., are sold by retail. \ (n.) A building in which mechanics or artisans work; as, a shoe shop; a car shop. \ (v. i.) To visit shops for the purpose of purchasing goods. \ (n.) A person's occupation, business, profession, or the like, as a subject of attention, interest, conversation; -- generally in deprecation. \ (n.) A place where any industry is carried on, a chemist's shop; \ (n.) any of the various places of business which are commonly called offices, as of a lawyer, doctor, broker, etc. \ (n.) Any place of resort, as one's house, a restaurant
ins shopping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shop
ins short ad. lasting only for a small period of time; not long; opposite tall \ (superl.) Not long; having brief length or linear extension; as, a short distance; a short piece of timber; a short flight. \ (superl.) Not extended in time; having very limited duration; not protracted, short breath. \ (superl.) Limited in quantity; inadequate; insufficient; scanty, a short supply of provisions, or of water. \ (superl.) Insufficiently provided; inadequately supplied; scantily furnished; lacking; not coming up to a resonable, or the ordinary, standard; -- usually with of, to be short of money. \ (superl.) Deficient; defective; imperfect; not coming up, as to a measure or standard, an account which is short of the trith. \ (superl.) Not distant in time; near at hand. \ (superl.) Limited in intellectual power or grasp; not comprehensive; narrow; not tenacious, as memory. \ (superl.) Less important, efficaceous, or powerful; not equal or equivalent; less (than); -- with of. \ (superl.) Abrupt; brief; pointed; petulant, he gave a short answer to the question. \ (superl.) Breaking or crumbling readily in the mouth; crisp, short pastry. \ (superl.) Brittle. \ (superl.) Engaging or engaged to deliver what is not possessed, short contracts; to be short of stock. See The shorts, under Short, n., and To sell short, adv. \ (adv.) Not prolonged, or relatively less prolonged, in utterance; -- opposed to long, and applied to vowels or to syllables. In English, the long and short of the same letter are not, in most cases, the long and short of the same sound; thus, the i in ill is the short sound, not of i in isle, but of ee in eel, and the e in pet is the short sound of a in pate, etc. See Quantity, and Guide to Pronunciation, //22, 30. \ (n.) A summary account. \ (n.) The part of milled grain sifted out which is next finer than the bran. \ (n.) Short, inferior hemp. \ (n.) Breeches; shortclothes. \ (n.) A short sound, syllable, or vowel. \ (adv.) In a short manner; briefly; limitedly; abruptly; quickly, to stop short in one's course; to turn short. \ (v. t.) To shorten. \ (v. i.) To fail; to decrease.
ins should v. used with another verb (action word) to show responsibility ("We should study."), probability ("The talks should begin soon."), or that something is believed to be a good idea ("Criminals should be punished.") \ (imp.) of Shall \ (imp.) Used as an auxiliary verb, to express a conditional or contingent act or state, or as a supposition of an actual fact; also, to express moral obligation (see Shall); e. g.: they should have come last week; if I should go; I should think you could go.
ins shoulder (n.) The joint, or the region of the joint, by which the fore limb is connected with the body or with the shoulder girdle; the projection formed by the bones and muscles about that joint. \ (n.) The flesh and muscles connected with the shoulder joint; the upper part of the back; that part of the human frame on which it is most easy to carry a heavy burden; -- often used in the plural. \ (n.) Fig.: That which supports or sustains; support. \ (n.) That which resembles a human shoulder, as any protuberance or projection from the body of a thing. \ (n.) The upper joint of the fore leg and adjacent parts of an animal, dressed for market; as, a shoulder of mutton. \ (n.) The angle of a bastion included between the face and flank. See Illust. of Bastion. \ (n.) An abrupt projection which forms an abutment on an object, or limits motion, etc., as the projection around a tenon at the end of a piece of timber, the part of the top of a type which projects beyond the base of the raised character, etc. \ (v. t.) To push or thrust with the shoulder; to push with violence; to jostle. \ (v. t.) To take upon the shoulder or shoulders, to shoulder a basket; hence, to assume the burden or responsibility of, to shoulder blame; to shoulder a debt. \ (v. i.) To push with the shoulder; to make one's way, as through a crowd, by using the shoulders; to move swaying the shoulders from side to side.
ins show v. to make something be seen; to make known; n. a play or story presented in a theater, or broadcast on radio or television, for enjoyment or education; something organized to be seen by the public \ (v. t.) To exhibit or present to view; to place in sight; to display; -- the thing exhibited being the object, and often with an indirect object denoting the person or thing seeing or beholding; as, to show a house; show your colors; shopkeepers show customers goods (show goods to customers). \ (v. t.) To exhibit to the mental view; to tell; to disclose; to reveal, to show one's designs. \ (v. t.) Specifically, to make known the way to (a person); hence, to direct; to guide; to asher; to conduct, to show a person into a parlor; to show one to the door. \ (v. t.) To make apparent or clear, as by evidence, testimony, or reasoning; to prove; to explain; also, to manifest; to evince, to show the truth of a statement; to show the causes of an event. \ (v. t.) To bestow; to confer; to afford, to show favor. \ (v. i.) To exhibit or manifest one's self or itself; to appear; to look; to be in appearance; to seem. \ (v. i.) To have a certain appearance, as well or ill, fit or unfit; to become or suit; to appear. \ (n.) The act of showing, or bringing to view; exposure to sight; exhibition. \ (n.) That which os shown, or brought to view; that which is arranged to be seen; a spectacle; an exhibition, a traveling show; a cattle show. \ (n.) Proud or ostentatious display; parade; pomp. \ (n.) Semblance; likeness; appearance. \ (n.) False semblance; deceitful appearance; pretense. \ (n.) A discharge, from the vagina, of mucus streaked with blood, occuring a short time before labor. \ (n.) A pale blue flame, at the top of a candle flame, indicating the presence of fire damp.
ins shower (n.) One who shows or exhibits. \ (n.) That which shows; a mirror. \ (n.) A fall or rain or hail of short duration; sometimes, but rarely, a like fall of snow. \ (n.) That which resembles a shower in falling or passing through the air copiously and rapidly. \ (n.) A copious supply bestowed. \ (v. t.) To water with a shower; to //t copiously with rain. \ (v. t.) To bestow liberally; to destribute or scatter in /undance; to rain. \ (v. i.) To rain in showers; to fall, as in a hower or showers.
ins shut (imp. & p. p.) of Shut \ (v. t.) To close so as to hinder ingress or egress; as, to shut a door or a gate; to shut one's eyes or mouth. \ (v. t.) To forbid entrance into; to prohibit; to bar, to shut the ports of a country by a blockade. \ (v. t.) To preclude; to exclude; to bar out. \ (v. t.) To fold together; to close over, as the fingers; to close by bringing the parts together, to shut the hand; to shut a book. \ (v. i.) To close itself; to become closed, the door shuts; it shuts hard. \ (a.) Closed or fastened, a shut door. \ (a.) Rid; clear; free, to get shut of a person. \ (a.) Formed by complete closure of the mouth passage, and with the nose passage remaining closed; stopped, as are the mute consonants, p, t, k, b, d, and hard g. \ (a.) Cut off sharply and abruptly by a following consonant in the same syllable, as the English short vowels, /, always are. \ (n.) The act or time of shutting; close, the shut of a door. \ (n.) A door or cover; a shutter. \ (n.) The line or place where two pieces of metal are united by welding.
ins sick ad. suffering physically or mentally with a disease or other problem; not in good health \ (superl.) Affected with disease of any kind; ill; indisposed; not in health. See the Synonym under Illness. \ (superl.) Affected with, or attended by, nausea; inclined to vomit; as, sick at the stomach; a sick headache. \ (superl.) Having a strong dislike; disgusted; surfeited; -- with of, to be sick of flattery. \ (superl.) Corrupted; imperfect; impaired; weakned. \ (n.) Sickness. \ (v. i.) To fall sick; to sicken.
ins side n. the outer surfaces of an object that are not the top or bottom; parts away from the middle; either the right or left half of the body \ (n.) The margin, edge, verge, or border of a surface; especially (when the thing spoken of is somewhat oblong in shape), one of the longer edges as distinguished from the shorter edges, called ends; a bounding line of a geometrical figure; as, the side of a field, of a square or triangle, of a river, of a road, etc. \ (n.) Any outer portion of a thing considered apart from, and yet in relation to, the rest, the upper side of a sphere; also, any part or position viewed as opposite to or contrasted with another, this or that side. \ (n.) One of the halves of the body, of an animals or man, on either side of the mesial plane; or that which pertains to such a half, a side of beef; a side of sole leather. \ (n.) The right or left part of the wall or trunk of the body, a pain in the side. \ (n.) A slope or declivity, as of a hill, considered as opposed to another slope over the ridge. \ (n.) The position of a person or party regarded as opposed to another person or party, whether as a rival or a foe; a body of advocates or partisans; a party; hence, the interest or cause which one maintains against another; a doctrine or view opposed to another. \ (n.) A line of descent traced through one parent as distinguished from that traced through another. \ (n.) Fig.: Aspect or part regarded as contrasted with some other, the bright side of poverty. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a side, or the sides; being on the side, or toward the side; lateral. \ (a.) Hence, indirect; oblique; collateral; incidental, a side issue; a side view or remark. \ (n.) Long; large; extensive. \ (v. i.) To lean on one side. \ (v. i.) To embrace the opinions of one party, or engage in its interest, in opposition to another party; to take sides, to side with the ministerial party. \ (v. t.) To be or stand at the side of; to be on the side toward. \ (v. t.) To suit; to pair; to match. \ (v. t.) To work (a timber or rib) to a certain thickness by trimming the sides. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a siding, to side a house.
ins sign v. to write one's name; n. a mark or shape used to mean something; evidence that something exists or will happen; a flat piece of material with writing that gives information \ (n.) That by which anything is made known or represented; that which furnishes evidence; a mark; a token; an indication; a proof. \ (n.) A remarkable event, considered by the ancients as indicating the will of some deity; a prodigy; an omen. \ (n.) An event considered by the Jews as indicating the divine will, or as manifesting an interposition of the divine power for some special end; a miracle; a wonder. \ (n.) Something serving to indicate the existence, or preserve the memory, of a thing; a memorial; a monument. \ (n.) Any symbol or emblem which prefigures, typifles, or represents, an idea; a type; hence, sometimes, a picture. \ (n.) A word or a character regarded as the outward manifestation of thought; as, words are the sign of ideas. \ (n.) A motion, an action, or a gesture by which a thought is expressed, or a command or a wish made known. \ (n.) Hence, one of the gestures of pantomime, or of a language of a signs such as those used by the North American Indians, or those used by the deaf and dumb. \ (n.) A military emblem carried on a banner or a standard. \ (n.) A lettered board, or other conspicuous notice, placed upon or before a building, room, shop, or office to advertise the business there transacted, or the name of the person or firm carrying it on; a publicly displayed token or notice. \ (n.) The twelfth part of the ecliptic or zodiac. \ (n.) A character indicating the relation of quantities, or an operation performed upon them, the sign + (plus); the sign -- (minus); the sign of division , and the like. \ (n.) An objective evidence of disease; that is, one appreciable by some one other than the patient. \ (n.) Any character, as a flat, sharp, dot, etc. \ (n.) That which, being external, stands for, or signifies, something internal or spiritual; -- a term used in the Church of England in speaking of an ordinance considered with reference to that which it represents. \ (n.) To represent by a sign; to make known in a typical or emblematic manner, in distinction from speech; to signify. \ (n.) To make a sign upon; to mark with a sign. \ (n.) To affix a signature to; to ratify by hand or seal; to subscribe in one's own handwriting. \ (n.) To assign or convey formally; -- used with away. \ (n.) To mark; to make distinguishable. \ (v. i.) To be a sign or omen. \ (v. i.) To make a sign or signal; to communicate directions or intelligence by signs. \ (v. i.) To write one's name, esp. as a token of assent, responsibility, or obligation.
ins silent (a.) Free from sound or noise; absolutely still; perfectly quiet. \ (a.) Not speaking; indisposed to talk; speechless; mute; taciturn; not loquacious; not talkative. \ (a.) Keeping at rest; inactive; calm; undisturbed; as, the wind is silent. \ (a.) Not pronounced; having no sound; quiescent, e is silent in "fable." \ (a.) Having no effect; not operating; inefficient. \ (n.) That which is silent; a time of silence.
ins silver n. a valued white metal \ (n.) A soft white metallic element, sonorous, ductile, very malleable, and capable of a high degree of polish. It is found native, and also combined with sulphur, arsenic, antimony, chlorine, etc., in the minerals argentite, proustite, pyrargyrite, ceragyrite, etc. Silver is one of the "noble" metals, so-called, not being easily oxidized, and is used for coin, jewelry, plate, and a great variety of articles. Symbol Ag (Argentum). Atomic weight 107.7. Specific gravity 10.5. \ (n.) Coin made of silver; silver money. \ (n.) Anything having the luster or appearance of silver. \ (n.) The color of silver. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to silver; made of silver; as, silver leaf; a silver cup. \ (a.) Resembling silver. \ (a.) Bright; resplendent; white. \ (a.) Precious; costly. \ (a.) Giving a clear, ringing sound soft and clear. \ (a.) Sweet; gentle; peaceful. \ (v. t.) To cover with silver; to give a silvery appearance to by applying a metal of a silvery color, to silver a pin; to silver a glass mirror plate with an amalgam of tin and mercury. \ (v. t.) To polish like silver; to impart a brightness to, like that of silver. \ (v. t.) To make hoary, or white, like silver. \ (v. i.) To acquire a silvery color.
ins simple ad. easy to understand or do; not difficult or complex \ (a.) Single; not complex; not infolded or entangled; uncombined; not compounded; not blended with something else; not complicated; as, a simple substance; a simple idea; a simple sound; a simple machine; a simple problem; simple tasks. \ (a.) Plain; unadorned, simple dress. \ (a.) Mere; not other than; being only. \ (a.) Not given to artifice, stratagem, or duplicity; undesigning; sincere; true. \ (a.) Artless in manner; unaffected; unconstrained; natural; inartificial; straightforward. \ (a.) Direct; clear; intelligible; not abstruse or enigmatical, a simple statement; simple language. \ (a.) Weak in intellect; not wise or sagacious; of but moderate understanding or attainments; hence, foolish; silly. \ (a.) Not luxurious; without much variety; plain, a simple diet; a simple way of living. \ (a.) Humble; lowly; undistinguished. \ (a.) Without subdivisions; entire, a simple stem; a simple leaf. \ (a.) Not capable of being decomposed into anything more simple or ultimate by any means at present known; elementary; thus, atoms are regarded as simple bodies. Cf. Ultimate, a. \ (a.) Homogenous. \ (a.) Consisting of a single individual or zooid, a simple ascidian; -- opposed to compound. \ (a.) Something not mixed or compounded. \ (a.) A medicinal plant; -- so called because each vegetable was supposed to possess its particular virtue, and therefore to constitute a simple remedy. \ (a.) A drawloom. \ (a.) A part of the apparatus for raising the heddles of a drawloom. \ (a.) A feast which is not a double or a semidouble. \ (v. i.) To gather simples, or medicinal plants.
ins since prep. from a time in the past until now ("I have known her since we went to school together.") \ (adv.) From a definite past time until now; as, he went a month ago, and I have not seen him since. \ (adv.) In the time past, counting backward from the present; before this or now; ago. \ (adv.) When or that. \ (prep.) From the time of; in or during the time subsequent to; subsequently to; after; -- usually with a past event or time for the object. \ (conj.) Seeing that; because; considering; -- formerly followed by that.
ins sing v. to make music sounds with the voice \ (v. i.) To utter sounds with musical inflections or melodious modulations of voice, as fancy may dictate, or according to the notes of a song or tune, or of a given part (as alto, tenor, etc.) in a chorus or concerted piece. \ (v. i.) To utter sweet melodious sounds, as birds do. \ (v. i.) To make a small, shrill sound; as, the air sings in passing through a crevice. \ (v. i.) To tell or relate something in numbers or verse; to celebrate something in poetry. \ (v. i.) Ti cry out; to complain. \ (v. t.) To utter with musical infections or modulations of voice. \ (v. t.) To celebrate is song; to give praises to in verse; to relate or rehearse in numbers, verse, or poetry. \ (v. t.) To influence by singing; to lull by singing, to sing a child to sleep. \ (v. t.) To accompany, or attend on, with singing.
ins singer (n.) One who, or that which, singes. \ (n.) One employed to singe cloth. \ (n.) A machine for singeing cloth. \ (n.) One who sings; especially, one whose profession is to sing.
ins sister n. a female with the same father or mother as another person \ (n.) A female who has the same parents with another person, or who has one of them only. In the latter case, she is more definitely called a half sister. The correlative of brother. \ (n.) A woman who is closely allied to, or assocciated with, another person, as in the sdame faith, society, order, or community. \ (n.) One of the same kind, or of the same condition; -- generally used adjectively; as, sister fruits. \ (v. t.) To be sister to; to resemble closely.
ins sit v. to rest on the lower part of the body without the support of the legs; to become seated \ obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Sit, for sitteth. \ (v. t.) To rest upon the haunches, or the lower extremity of the trunk of the body; -- said of human beings, and sometimes of other animals; as, to sit on a sofa, on a chair, or on the ground. \ (v. t.) To perch; to rest with the feet drawn up, as birds do on a branch, pole, etc. \ (v. t.) To remain in a state of repose; to rest; to abide; to rest in any position or condition. \ (v. t.) To lie, rest, or bear; to press or weigh; -- with on, a weight or burden sits lightly upon him. \ (v. t.) To be adjusted; to fit, a coat sts well or ill. \ (v. t.) To suit one well or ill, as an act; to become; to befit; -- used impersonally. \ (v. t.) To cover and warm eggs for hatching, as a fowl; to brood; to incubate. \ (v. t.) To have position, as at the point blown from; to hold a relative position; to have direction. \ (v. t.) To occupy a place or seat as a member of an official body, to sit in Congress. \ (v. t.) To hold a session; to be in session for official business; -- said of legislative assemblies, courts, etc., the court sits in January; the aldermen sit to-night. \ (v. t.) To take a position for the purpose of having some artistic representation of one's self made, as a picture or a bust, to sit to a painter. \ (v. t.) To sit upon; to keep one's seat upon, he sits a horse well. \ (v. t.) To cause to be seated or in a sitting posture; to furnish a seat to; -- used reflexively. \ (v. t.) To suit (well / ill); to become.
ins six (a.) One more than five; twice three; as, six yards. \ (n.) The number greater by a unit than five; the sum of three and three; six units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing six units, as 6, vi., or VI.
ins sixteen (a.) Six and ten; consisting of six and ten; fifteen and one more. \ (n.) The number greater by a unit than fifteen; the sum of ten and six; sixteen units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing sixteen units, as 16, or xvi.
ins sixty (a.) Six times ten; fifty-nine and one more; threescore. \ (n.) The sum of six times ten; sixty units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing sixty units, as 60, lx., or LX.
ins size n. the space occupied by something; how long, wide or high something is \ (n.) Six. \ (v. i.) A thin, weak glue used in various trades, as in painting, bookbinding, paper making, etc. \ (v. i.) Any viscous substance, as gilder's varnish. \ (v. t.) To cover with size; to prepare with size. \ (n.) A settled quantity or allowance. See Assize. \ (n.) An allowance of food and drink from the buttery, aside from the regular dinner at commons; -- corresponding to battel at Oxford. \ (n.) Extent of superficies or volume; bulk; bigness; magnitude; as, the size of a tree or of a mast; the size of a ship or of a rock. \ (n.) Figurative bulk; condition as to rank, ability, character, etc., the office demands a man of larger size. \ (n.) A conventional relative measure of dimension, as for shoes, gloves, and other articles made up for sale. \ (n.) An instrument consisting of a number of perforated gauges fastened together at one end by a rivet, -- used for ascertaining the size of pearls. \ (v. t.) To fix the standard of. \ (v. t.) To adjust or arrange according to size or bulk. \ (v. t.) To take the height of men, in order to place them in the ranks according to their stature. \ (v. t.) To sift, as pieces of ore or metal, in order to separate the finer from the coarser parts. \ (v. t.) To swell; to increase the bulk of. \ (v. t.) To bring or adjust anything exactly to a required dimension, as by cutting. \ (v. i.) To take greater size; to increase in size. \ (v. i.) To order food or drink from the buttery; hence, to enter a score, as upon the buttery book.
ins ski (n.) Same as Skee.
ins skin n. the outer covering of humans and most animals \ (n.) The external membranous integument of an animal. \ (n.) The hide of an animal, separated from the body, whether green, dry, or tanned; especially, that of a small animal, as a calf, sheep, or goat. \ (n.) A vessel made of skin, used for holding liquids. See Bottle, 1. \ (n.) The bark or husk of a plant or fruit; the exterior coat of fruits and plants. \ (n.) That part of a sail, when furled, which remains on the outside and covers the whole. \ (n.) The covering, as of planking or iron plates, outside the framing, forming the sides and bottom of a vessel; the shell; also, a lining inside the framing. \ (v. t.) To strip off the skin or hide of; to flay; to peel; as, to skin an animal. \ (v. t.) To cover with skin, or as with skin; hence, to cover superficially. \ (v. t.) To strip of money or property; to cheat. \ (v. i.) To become covered with skin, a wound skins over. \ (v. i.) To produce, in recitation, examination, etc., the work of another for one's own, or to use in such exercise cribs, memeoranda, which are prohibited.
ins sky n. the space above the earth \ (n.) A cloud. \ (n.) Hence, a shadow. \ (n.) The apparent arch, or vault, of heaven, which in a clear day is of a blue color; the heavens; the firmament; -- sometimes in the plural. \ (n.) The wheather; the climate. \ (v. t.) To hang (a picture on exhibition) near the top of a wall, where it can not be well seen. \ (v. t.) To throw towards the sky; as, to sky a ball at cricket.
ins sleep v. to rest the body and mind with the eyes closed \ imp. of Sleep. Slept. \ (v. i.) To take rest by a suspension of the voluntary exercise of the powers of the body and mind, and an apathy of the organs of sense; to slumber. \ (v. i.) To be careless, inattentive, or uncouncerned; not to be vigilant; to live thoughtlessly. \ (v. i.) To be dead; to lie in the grave. \ (v. i.) To be, or appear to be, in repose; to be quiet; to be unemployed, unused, or unagitated; to rest; to lie dormant; as, a question sleeps for the present; the law sleeps. \ (v. t.) To be slumbering in; -- followed by a cognate object, to sleep a dreamless sleep. \ (v. t.) To give sleep to; to furnish with accomodations for sleeping; to lodge. \ (v. i.) A natural and healthy, but temporary and periodical, suspension of the functions of the organs of sense, as well as of those of the voluntary and rational soul; that state of the animal in which there is a lessened acuteness of sensory perception, a confusion of ideas, and a loss of mental control, followed by a more or less unconscious state.
ins sleepy (n.) Drowsy; inclined to, or overcome by, sleep. \ (n.) Tending to induce sleep; soporiferous; somniferous; as, a sleepy drink or potion. \ (n.) Dull; lazy; heavy; sluggish. \ (n.) Characterized by an absence of watchfulness, sleepy security.
ins slow v. to reduce the speed of; ad. not fast in moving, talking or other activities \ imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew. \ (superl.) Moving a short space in a relatively long time; not swift; not quick in motion; not rapid; moderate; deliberate; as, a slow stream; a slow motion. \ (superl.) Not happening in a short time; gradual; late. \ (superl.) Not ready; not prompt or quick; dilatory; sluggish, slow of speech, and slow of tongue. \ (superl.) Not hasty; not precipitate; acting with deliberation; tardy; inactive. \ (superl.) Behind in time; indicating a time earlier than the true time, the clock or watch is slow. \ (superl.) Not advancing or improving rapidly, the slow growth of arts and sciences. \ (superl.) Heavy in wit; not alert, prompt, or spirited; wearisome; dull. \ (adv.) Slowly. \ (v. t.) To render slow; to slacken the speed of; to retard; to delay, to slow a steamer. \ (v. i.) To go slower; -- often with up, the train slowed up before crossing the bridge. \ (n.) A moth.
ins slowly (adv.) In a slow manner; moderately; not rapidly; not early; not rashly; not readly; tardly.
ins small ad. little in size or amount; few in number; not important; opposite large \ (superl.) Having little size, compared with other things of the same kind; little in quantity or degree; diminutive; not large or extended in dimension; not great; not much; inconsiderable; as, a small man; a small river. \ (superl.) Being of slight consequence; feeble in influence or importance; unimportant; trivial; insignificant, a small fault; a small business. \ (superl.) Envincing little worth or ability; not large-minded; -- sometimes, in reproach, paltry; mean. \ (superl.) Not prolonged in duration; not extended in time; short, after a small space. \ (superl.) Weak; slender; fine; gentle; soft; not loud. \ (adv.) In or to small extent, quantity, or degree; little; slightly. \ (adv.) Not loudly; faintly; timidly. \ (n.) The small or slender part of a thing, the small of the leg or of the back. \ (n.) Smallclothes. \ (n.) Same as Little go. See under Little, a. \ (v. t.) To make little or less.
ins smell v. to sense through the nose; n. something sensed by the nose ("the smell of food cooking") \ (n.) To perceive by the olfactory nerves, or organs of smell; to have a sensation of, excited through the nasal organs when affected by the appropriate materials or qualities; to obtain the scent of; as, to smell a rose; to smell perfumes. \ (n.) To detect or perceive, as if by the sense of smell; to scent out; -- often with out. \ (n.) To give heed to. \ (v. i.) To affect the olfactory nerves; to have an odor or scent; -- often followed by of, to smell of smoke, or of musk. \ (v. i.) To have a particular tincture or smack of any quality; to savor, a report smells of calumny. \ (v. i.) To exercise the sense of smell. \ (v. i.) To exercise sagacity. \ (v. t.) The sense or faculty by which certain qualities of bodies are perceived through the instrumentally of the olfactory nerves. See Sense. \ (v. t.) The quality of any thing or substance, or emanation therefrom, which affects the olfactory organs; odor; scent; fragrance; perfume, the smell of mint.
ins smile (v. i.) To express amusement, pleasure, moderate joy, or love and kindness, by the features of the face; to laugh silently. \ (v. i.) To express slight contempt by a look implying sarcasm or pity; to sneer. \ (v. i.) To look gay and joyous; to have an appearance suited to excite joy; as, smiling spring; smiling plenty. \ (v. i.) To be propitious or favorable; to favor; to countenance; -- often with on, to smile on one's labors. \ (v. t.) To express by a smile, to smile consent; to smile a welcome to visitors. \ (v. t.) To affect in a certain way with a smile. \ (v. i.) The act of smiling; a peculiar change or brightening of the face, which expresses pleasure, mirth, approbation, or kindness; -- opposed to frown. \ (v. i.) A somewhat similar expression of countenance, indicative of satisfaction combined with malevolent feelings, as contempt, scorn, etc, a scornful smile. \ (v. i.) Favor; countenance; propitiousness, the smiles of Providence. \ (v. i.) Gay or joyous appearance, the smiles of spring.
ins smoke v. to use cigarettes or other tobacco products by burning them and breathing in the smoke; n. that which can be seen rising into the air like a cloud from something burning \ (n.) The visible exhalation, vapor, or substance that escapes, or expelled, from a burning body, especially from burning vegetable matter, as wood, coal, peat, or the like. \ (n.) That which resembles smoke; a vapor; a mist. \ (n.) Anything unsubstantial, as idle talk. \ (n.) The act of smoking, esp. of smoking tobacco; as, to have a smoke. \ (n.) To emit smoke; to throw off volatile matter in the form of vapor or exhalation; to reek. \ (n.) Hence, to burn; to be kindled; to rage. \ (n.) To raise a dust or smoke by rapid motion. \ (n.) To draw into the mouth the smoke of tobacco burning in a pipe or in the form of a cigar, cigarette, etc.; to habitually use tobacco in this manner. \ (n.) To suffer severely; to be punished. \ (v. t.) To apply smoke to; to hang in smoke; to disinfect, to cure, by smoke, to smoke or fumigate infected clothing; to smoke beef or hams for preservation. \ (v. t.) To fill or scent with smoke; hence, to fill with incense; to perfume. \ (v. t.) To smell out; to hunt out; to find out; to detect. \ (v. t.) To ridicule to the face; to quiz. \ (v. t.) To inhale and puff out the smoke of, as tobacco; to burn or use in smoking, to smoke a pipe or a cigar. \ (v. t.) To subject to the operation of smoke, for the purpose of annoying or driving out; -- often with out, to smoke a woodchuck out of his burrow.
ins smoker (n.) One who dries or preserves by smoke. \ (n.) One who smokes tobacco or the like. \ (n.) A smoking car or compartment. \ (n.) A gathering for smoking and social intercourse.
ins smoking (p. pr. & vb n.) of Smoke \ a. & n. from Smoke.
ins snake (n.) Any species of the order Ophidia; an ophidian; a serpent, whether harmless or venomous. See Ophidia, and Serpent. \ (v. t.) To drag or draw, as a snake from a hole; -- often with out. \ (v. t.) To wind round spirally, as a large rope with a smaller, or with cord, the small rope lying in the spaces between the strands of the large one; to worm. \ (v. i.) To crawl like a snake.
ins snow n. soft, white pieces of frozen water that fall from the sky, usually in winter or when the air temperature is very cold \ (n.) A square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig only in that she has a trysail mast close abaft the mainmast, on which a large trysail is hoisted. \ (n.) Watery particles congealed into white or transparent crystals or flakes in the air, and falling to the earth, exhibiting a great variety of very beautiful and perfect forms. \ (n.) Fig.: Something white like snow, as the white color (argent) in heraldry; something which falls in, or as in, flakes. \ (v. i.) To fall in or as snow; -- chiefly used impersonally; as, it snows; it snowed yesterday. \ (v. t.) To scatter like snow; to cover with, or as with, snow.
ins so ad. in such a way that ("He held the flag so all could see it."); also; too ("She left early, and so did we."); very ("I am so sick."); as a result ("They were sick, so they could not come."); conj. in order that; for the purpose of ("Come early so we can discuss the plans.") \ (adv.) In that manner or degree; as, indicated (in any way), or as implied, or as supposed to be known. \ (adv.) In like manner or degree; in the same way; thus; for like reason; whith equal reason; -- used correlatively, following as, to denote comparison or resemblance; sometimes, following inasmuch as. \ (adv.) In such manner; to such degree; -- used correlatively with as or that following, he was so fortunate as to escape. \ (adv.) Very; in a high degree; that is, in such a degree as can not well be expressed, he is so good; he planned so wisely. \ (adv.) In the same manner; as has been stated or suggested; in this or that condition or state; under these circumstances; in this way; -- with reflex reference to something just asserted or implied; used also with the verb to be, as a predicate. \ (adv.) The case being such; therefore; on this account; for this reason; on these terms; -- used both as an adverb and a conjuction. \ (adv.) It is well; let it be as it is, or let it come to pass; -- used to express assent. \ (adv.) Well; the fact being as stated; -- used as an expletive, so the work is done, is it? \ (adv.) Is it thus? do you mean what you say? -- with an upward tone, do you say he refuses? So? \ (adv.) About the number, time, or quantity specified; thereabouts; more or less, I will spend a week or so in the country; I have read only a page or so. \ (conj.) Provided that; on condition that; in case that; if. \ (interj.) Be as you are; stand still; stop; that will do; right as you are; -- a word used esp. to cows; also used by sailors.
ins soap (n.) A substance which dissolves in water, thus forming a lather, and is used as a cleansing agent. Soap is produced by combining fats or oils with alkalies or alkaline earths, usually by boiling, and consists of salts of sodium, potassium, etc., with the fatty acids (oleic, stearic, palmitic, etc.). See the Note below, and cf. Saponification. By extension, any compound of similar composition or properties, whether used as a cleaning agent or not. \ (v. t.) To rub or wash over with soap. \ (v. t.) To flatter; to wheedle.
ins soda (n.) Sodium oxide or hydroxide. \ (n.) Popularly, sodium carbonate or bicarbonate.
ins soft ad. not hard; easily shaped; pleasing to touch; not loud \ (superl.) Easily yielding to pressure; easily impressed, molded, or cut; not firm in resisting; impressible; yielding; also, malleable; -- opposed to hard; as, a soft bed; a soft peach; soft earth; soft wood or metal. \ (superl.) Not rough, rugged, or harsh to the touch; smooth; delicate; fine, soft silk; a soft skin. \ (superl.) Hence, agreeable to feel, taste, or inhale; not irritating to the tissues, a soft liniment; soft wines. \ (superl.) Not harsh or offensive to the sight; not glaring; pleasing to the eye; not exciting by intensity of color or violent contrast, soft hues or tints. \ (superl.) Not harsh or rough in sound; gentle and pleasing to the ear; flowing, soft whispers of music. \ (superl.) Easily yielding; susceptible to influence; flexible; gentle; kind. \ (superl.) Expressing gentleness, tenderness, or the like; mild; conciliatory; courteous; kind, soft eyes. \ (superl.) Effeminate; not courageous or manly, weak. \ (superl.) Gentle in action or motion; easy. \ (superl.) Weak in character; impressible. \ (superl.) Somewhat weak in intellect. \ (superl.) Quiet; undisturbed; paceful, soft slumbers. \ (superl.) Having, or consisting of, a gentle curve or curves; not angular or abrupt, soft outlines. \ (superl.) Not tinged with mineral salts; adapted to decompose soap, soft water is the best for washing. \ (superl.) Applied to a palatal, a sibilant, or a dental consonant (as g in gem, c in cent, etc.) as distinguished from a guttural mute (as g in go, c in cone, etc.); -- opposed to hard. \ (superl.) Belonging to the class of sonant elements as distinguished from the surd, and considered as involving less force in utterance, b, d, g, z, v, etc., in contrast with p, t, k, s, f, etc. \ (n.) A soft or foolish person; an idiot. \ (adv.) Softly; without roughness or harshness; gently; quietly. \ (interj.) Be quiet; hold; stop; not so fast.
ins some ad. of an amount or number or part not stated; not all \ (a.) Consisting of a greater or less portion or sum; composed of a quantity or number which is not stated; -- used to express an indefinite quantity or number; as, some wine; some water; some persons. Used also pronominally, I have some. \ (a.) A certain; one; -- indicating a person, thing, event, etc., as not known individually, or designated more specifically, some man, that is, some one man. \ (a.) Not much; a little; moderate, the censure was to some extent just. \ (a.) About; near; more or less; -- used commonly with numerals, but formerly also with a singular substantive of time or distance, a village of some eighty houses; some two or three persons; some hour hence. \ (a.) Considerable in number or quality. \ (a.) Certain; those of one part or portion; -- in distinct from other or others, some men believe one thing, and others another. \ (a.) A part; a portion; -- used pronominally, and followed sometimes by of, some of our provisions.
ins somebody (n.) A person unknown or uncertain; a person indeterminate; some person. \ (n.) A person of consideration or importance.
ins something (n.) Anything unknown, undetermined, or not specifically designated; a certain indefinite thing; an indeterminate or unknown event; an unspecified task, work, or thing. \ (n.) A part; a portion, more or less; an indefinite quantity or degree; a little. \ (n.) A person or thing importance. \ (adv.) In some degree; somewhat; to some extent; at some distance.
ins sometimes (adv.) Formerly; sometime. \ (adv.) At times; at intervals; now and then;occasionally. \ (a.) Former; sometime.
ins son n. a person's male child \ (n.) A male child; the male issue, or offspring, of a parent, father or mother. \ (n.) A male descendant, however distant; hence, in the plural, descendants in general. \ (n.) Any young male person spoken of as a child; an adopted male child; a pupil, ward, or any other male dependent. \ (n.) A native or inhabitant of some specified place; as, sons of Albion; sons of New England. \ (n.) The produce of anything. \ (n.) Jesus Christ, the Savior; -- called the Son of God, and the Son of man.
ins song (n.) That which is sung or uttered with musical modulations of the voice, whether of a human being or of a bird, insect, etc. \ (n.) A lyrical poem adapted to vocal music; a ballad. \ (n.) More generally, any poetical strain; a poem. \ (n.) Poetical composition; poetry; verse. \ (n.) An object of derision; a laughingstock. \ (n.) A trifle.
ins soon ad. not long after the present time; quickly \ (adv.) In a short time; shortly after any time specified or supposed; as, soon after sunrise. \ (adv.) Without the usual delay; before any time supposed; early. \ (adv.) Promptly; quickly; easily. \ (adv.) Readily; willingly; -- in this sense used with would, or some other word expressing will. \ (a.) Speedy; quick.
ins sorry (a.) Grieved for the loss of some good; pained for some evil; feeling regret; -- now generally used to express light grief or affliction, but formerly often used to express deeper feeling. \ (a.) Melancholy; dismal; gloomy; mournful. \ (a.) Poor; mean; worthless; as, a sorry excuse.
ins sound n. fast-moving waves of energy that affect the ear and result in hearing; that which is heard
ins soup (n.) A liquid food of many kinds, usually made by boiling meat and vegetables, or either of them, in water, -- commonly seasoned or flavored; strong broth. \ (v. t.) To sup or swallow. \ (v. t.) To breathe out. \ (v. t.) To sweep. See Sweep, and Swoop.
ins south n. the direction to the right of a person facing the rising sun \ (n.) That one of the four cardinal points directly opposite to the north; the region or direction to the right or direction to the right of a person who faces the east. \ (n.) A country, region, or place situated farther to the south than another; the southern section of a country. \ (n.) Specifically: That part of the United States which is south of Mason and Dixon's line. See under Line. \ (n.) The wind from the south. \ (a.) Lying toward the south; situated at the south, or in a southern direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the south, or coming from the south; blowing from the south; southern; as, the south pole. \ (adv.) Toward the south; southward. \ (adv.) From the south, the wind blows south. \ (v. i.) To turn or move toward the south; to veer toward the south. \ (v. i.) To come to the meridian; to cross the north and south line; -- said chiefly of the moon, the moon souths at nine.
ins space n. the area outside the earth's atmosphere where the sun, moon, planets and stars are; the area between or inside things \ (n.) Extension, considered independently of anything which it may contain; that which makes extended objects conceivable and possible. \ (n.) Place, having more or less extension; room. \ (n.) A quantity or portion of extension; distance from one thing to another; an interval between any two or more objects; as, the space between two stars or two hills; the sound was heard for the space of a mile. \ (n.) Quantity of time; an interval between two points of time; duration; time. \ (n.) A short time; a while. \ (n.) Walk; track; path; course. \ (n.) A small piece of metal cast lower than a face type, so as not to receive the ink in printing, -- used to separate words or letters. \ (n.) The distance or interval between words or letters in the lines, or between lines, as in books. \ (n.) One of the intervals, or open places, between the lines of the staff. \ (n.) To walk; to rove; to roam. \ (n.) To arrange or adjust the spaces in or between, to space words, lines, or letters.
ins speak v. to talk; to say words with the mouth; to express one's thoughts to others and exchange ideas; to give a speech to a group \ (v. i.) To utter words or articulate sounds, as human beings; to express thoughts by words; as, the organs may be so obstructed that a man may not be able to speak. \ (v. i.) To express opinions; to say; to talk; to converse. \ (v. i.) To utter a speech, discourse, or harangue; to adress a public assembly formally. \ (v. i.) To discourse; to make mention; to tell. \ (v. i.) To give sound; to sound. \ (v. i.) To convey sentiments, ideas, or intelligence as if by utterance, features that speak of self-will. \ (v. t.) To utter with the mouth; to pronounce; to utter articulately, as human beings. \ (v. t.) To utter in a word or words; to tell; to declare orally, to speak the truth; to speak sense. \ (v. t.) To declare; to proclaim; to publish; to make known; to exhibit; to express in any way. \ (v. t.) To talk or converse in; to utter or pronounce, as in conversation, to speak Latin. \ (v. t.) To address; to accost; to speak to.
ins speaker (n.) One who speaks. \ (n.) One who utters or pronounces a discourse; usually, one who utters a speech in public; as, the man is a good speaker, or a bad speaker. \ (n.) One who is the mouthpiece of others; especially, one who presides over, or speaks for, a delibrative assembly, preserving order and regulating the debates, the Speaker of the House of Commons, originally, the mouthpiece of the House to address the king; the Speaker of a House of Representatives. \ (n.) A book of selections for declamation.
ins special ad. of a different or unusual kind; not for general use; better or more important than others of the same kind \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a species; constituting a species or sort. \ (a.) Particular; peculiar; different from others; extraordinary; uncommon. \ (a.) Appropriate; designed for a particular purpose, occasion, or person; as, a special act of Parliament or of Congress; a special sermon. \ (a.) Limited in range; confined to a definite field of action, investigation, or discussion, a special dictionary of commercial terms; a special branch of study. \ (a.) Chief in excellence. \ (n.) A particular. \ (n.) One appointed for a special service or occasion.
ins speed v. to make something go or move faster; n. the rate at which something moves or travels; the rate at which something happens or is done \ (n.) Prosperity in an undertaking; favorable issue; success. \ (n.) The act or state of moving swiftly; swiftness; velocity; rapidly; rate of motion; dispatch; as, the speed a horse or a vessel. \ (n.) One who, or that which, causes or promotes speed or success. \ (n.) To go; to fare. \ (n.) To experience in going; to have any condition, good or ill; to fare. \ (n.) To fare well; to have success; to prosper. \ (n.) To make haste; to move with celerity. \ (n.) To be expedient. \ (v. t.) To cause to be successful, or to prosper; hence, to aid; to favor. \ (v. t.) To cause to make haste; to dispatch with celerity; to drive at full speed, to hasten; to hurry. \ (v. t.) To hasten to a conclusion; to expedite. \ (v. t.) To hurry to destruction; to put an end to; to ruin; to undo. \ (v. t.) To wish success or god fortune to, in any undertaking, especially in setting out upon a journey.
ins spend v. to give as payment; to use ("He spends much time studying.") \ (v. t.) To weigh or lay out; to dispose of; to part with; as, to spend money for clothing. \ (v. t.) To bestow; to employ; -- often with on or upon. \ (v. t.) To consume; to waste; to squander; to exhaust, to spend an estate in gaming or other vices. \ (v. t.) To pass, as time; to suffer to pass away, to spend a day idly; to spend winter abroad. \ (v. t.) To exhaust of force or strength; to wear away, the violence of the waves was spent. \ (v. i.) To expend money or any other possession; to consume, use, waste, or part with, anything, he who gets easily spends freely. \ (v. i.) To waste or wear away; to be consumed; to lose force or strength; to vanish, energy spends in the using of it. \ (v. i.) To be diffused; to spread. \ (v. i.) To break ground; to continue working.
ins spoon (v. i.) See Spoom. \ (n.) An implement consisting of a small bowl (usually a shallow oval) with a handle, used especially in preparing or eating food. \ (n.) Anything which resembles a spoon in shape; esp. (Fishing), a spoon bait. \ (n.) Fig.: A simpleton; a spooney. \ (v. t.) To take up in, or as in, a spoon. \ (v. i.) To act with demonstrative or foolish fondness, as one in love. \ (n.) A wooden club with a lofted face. \ (v. t.) To catch by fishing with a spoon bait. \ (v. t.) In croquet, golf, etc., to push or shove (a ball) with a lifting motion, instead of striking with an audible knock. \ (v. i.) To fish with a spoon bait. \ (v. i.) In croquet, to spoon a ball.
ins sport n. any game or activity of competition involving physical effort or skill \ (n.) That which diverts, and makes mirth; pastime; amusement. \ (n.) Mock; mockery; contemptuous mirth; derision. \ (n.) That with which one plays, or which is driven about in play; a toy; a plaything; an object of mockery. \ (n.) Play; idle jingle. \ (n.) Diversion of the field, as fowling, hunting, fishing, racing, games, and the like, esp. when money is staked. \ (n.) A plant or an animal, or part of a plant or animal, which has some peculiarity not usually seen in the species; an abnormal variety or growth. See Sporting plant, under Sporting. \ (n.) A sportsman; a gambler. \ (v. i.) To play; to frolic; to wanton. \ (v. i.) To practice the diversions of the field or the turf; to be given to betting, as upon races. \ (v. i.) To trifle. \ (v. i.) To assume suddenly a new and different character from the rest of the plant or from the type of the species; -- said of a bud, shoot, plant, or animal. See Sport, n., 6. \ (v. t.) To divert; to amuse; to make merry; -- used with the reciprocal pronoun. \ (v. t.) To represent by any knd of play. \ (v. t.) To exhibit, or bring out, in public; to use or wear; as, to sport a new equipage. \ (v. t.) To give utterance to in a sportive manner; to throw out in an easy and copious manner; -- with off, to sport off epigrams.
ins spring n. the time of the year between winter and summer \ (v. i.) To leap; to bound; to jump. \ (v. i.) To issue with speed and violence; to move with activity; to dart; to shoot. \ (v. i.) To start or rise suddenly, as from a covert. \ (v. i.) To fly back; as, a bow, when bent, springs back by its elastic power. \ (v. i.) To bend from a straight direction or plane surface; to become warped, a piece of timber, or a plank, sometimes springs in seasoning. \ (v. i.) To shoot up, out, or forth; to come to the light; to begin to appear; to emerge; as a plant from its seed, as streams from their source, and the like; -often followed by up, forth, or out. \ (v. i.) To issue or proceed, as from a parent or ancestor; to result, as from a cause, motive, reason, or principle. \ (v. i.) To grow; to prosper. \ (v. t.) To cause to spring up; to start or rouse, as game; to cause to rise from the earth, or from a covert, to spring a pheasant. \ (v. t.) To produce or disclose suddenly or unexpectedly. \ (v. t.) To cause to explode, to spring a mine. \ (v. t.) To crack or split; to bend or strain so as to weaken, to spring a mast or a yard. \ (v. t.) To cause to close suddenly, as the parts of a trap operated by a spring, to spring a trap. \ (v. t.) To bend by force, as something stiff or strong; to force or put by bending, as a beam into its sockets, and allowing it to straighten when in place; -- often with in, etc., to spring in a slat or a bar. \ (v. t.) To pass over by leaping, to spring a fence. \ (v. i.) A leap; a bound; a jump. \ (v. i.) A flying back; the resilience of a body recovering its former state by elasticity, the spring of a bow. \ (v. i.) Elastic power or force. \ (v. i.) An elastic body of any kind, as steel, India rubber, tough wood, or compressed air, used for various mechanical purposes, as receiving and imparting power, diminishing concussion, regulating motion, measuring weight or other force. \ (v. i.) Any source of supply; especially, the source from which a stream proceeds; as issue of water from the earth; a natural fountain. \ (v. i.) Any active power; that by which action, or motion, is produced or propagated; cause; origin; motive. \ (v. i.) That which springs, or is originated, from a source; \ (v. i.) A race; lineage. \ (v. i.) A youth; a springal. \ (v. i.) A shoot; a plant; a young tree; also, a grove of trees; woodland. \ (v. i.) That which causes one to spring; specifically, a lively tune. \ (v. i.) The season of the year when plants begin to vegetate and grow; the vernal season, usually comprehending the months of March, April, and May, in the middle latitudes north of the equator. \ (v. i.) The time of growth and progress; early portion; first stage. \ (v. i.) A crack or fissure in a mast or yard, running obliquely or transversely.
ins square n. a flat shape having four equal sides \ (n.) The corner, or angle, of a figure. \ (n.) A parallelogram having four equal sides and four right angles. \ (n.) Hence, anything which is square, or nearly so \ (n.) A square piece or fragment. \ (n.) A pane of glass. \ (n.) A certain number of lines, forming a portion of a column, nearly square; -- used chiefly in reckoning the prices of advertisements in newspapers. \ (n.) One hundred superficial feet. \ (n.) An area of four sides, generally with houses on each side; sometimes, a solid block of houses; also, an open place or area for public use, as at the meeting or intersection of two or more streets. \ (n.) An instrument having at least one right angle and two or more straight edges, used to lay out or test square work. It is of several forms, as the T square, the carpenter's square, the try-square., etc. \ (n.) Hence, a pattern or rule. \ (n.) The product of a number or quantity multiplied by itself; thus, 64 is the square of 8, for 8 \ (n.) Exact proportion; justness of workmanship and conduct; regularity; rule. \ (n.) A body of troops formed in a square, esp. one formed to resist a charge of cavalry; a squadron. \ (n.) Fig.: The relation of harmony, or exact agreement; equality; level. \ (n.) The position of planets distant ninety degrees from each other; a quadrate. \ (n.) The act of squaring, or quarreling; a quarrel. \ (n.) The front of a woman's dress over the bosom, usually worked or embroidered. \ (a.) Having four equal sides and four right angles; as, a square figure. \ (a.) Forming a right angle, a square corner. \ (a.) Having a shape broad for the height, with rectilineal and angular rather than curving outlines, a man of a square frame. \ (a.) Exactly suitable or correspondent; true; just. \ (a.) Rendering equal justice; exact; fair; honest, as square dealing. \ (a.) Even; leaving no balance, to make or leave the accounts square. \ (a.) Leaving nothing; hearty; vigorous. \ (a.) At right angles with the mast or the keel, and parallel to the horizon; -- said of the yards of a square-rigged vessel when they are so braced. \ (n.) To form with four sides and four right angles. \ (n.) To form with right angles and straight lines, or flat surfaces, to square mason's work. \ (n.) To compare with, or reduce to, any given measure or standard. \ (n.) To adjust; to regulate; to mold; to shape; to fit, to square our actions by the opinions of others. \ (n.) To make even, so as leave no remainder of difference; to balance, to square accounts. \ (n.) To multiply by itself, to square a number or a quantity. \ (n.) To hold a quartile position respecting. \ (n.) To place at right angles with the keel, to square the yards. \ (v. i.) To accord or agree exactly; to be consistent with; to conform or agree; to suit; to fit. \ (v. i.) To go to opposite sides; to take an attitude of offense or defense, or of defiance; to quarrel. \ (v. i.) To take a boxing attitude; -- often with up, sometimes with off. / 8 = 64; the square of a + b is a2 + 2ab + b2.
ins stamp (v. i.) To strike beat, or press forcibly with the bottom of the foot, or by thrusting the foot downward. \ (v. i.) To bring down (the foot) forcibly on the ground or floor; as, he stamped his foot with rage. \ (v. i.) To crush; to pulverize; specifically (Metal.), to crush by the blow of a heavy stamp, as ore in a mill. \ (v. i.) To impress with some mark or figure, to stamp a plate with arms or initials. \ (v. i.) Fig.: To impress; to imprint; to fix deeply, to stamp virtuous principles on the heart. \ (v. i.) To cut out, bend, or indent, as paper, sheet metal, etc., into various forms, by a blow or suddenly applied pressure with a stamp or die; to mint; to coin. \ (v. i.) To put a stamp on, as for postage, to stamp a letter; to stamp a legal document. \ (v. i.) To strike; to beat; to crush. \ (v. i.) To strike the foot forcibly downward. \ (n.) The act of stamping, as with the foot. \ (n.) The which stamps; any instrument for making impressions on other bodies, as a die. \ (n.) The mark made by stamping; a mark imprinted; an impression. \ (n.) that which is marked; a thing stamped. \ (v. t.) A picture cut in wood or metal, or made by impression; a cut; a plate. \ (v. t.) An offical mark set upon things chargeable with a duty or tax to government, as evidence that the duty or tax is paid, the stamp on a bill of exchange. \ (v. t.) Hence, a stamped or printed device, issued by the government at a fixed price, and required by law to be affixed to, or stamped on, certain papers, as evidence that the government dues are paid, a postage stamp; a receipt stamp, etc. \ (v. t.) An instrument for cutting out, or shaping, materials, leather, by a downward pressure. \ (v. t.) A character or reputation, good or bad, fixed on anything as if by an imprinted mark; current value; authority, these persons have the stamp of dishonesty; the Scriptures bear the stamp of a divine origin. \ (v. t.) Make; cast; form; character, a man of the same stamp, or of a different stamp. \ (v. t.) A kind of heavy hammer, or pestle, raised by water or steam power, for beating ores to powder; anything like a pestle, used for pounding or bathing. \ (v. t.) A half-penny. \ (v. t.) Money, esp. paper money.
ins stand v. to move into or be in a position in which only the feet are on a surface; to be in one position or place
ins star n. a mass of gas that usually appears as a small light in the sky at night, but is not a planet; a famous person, usually an actor or singer \ (n.) One of the innumerable luminous bodies seen in the heavens; any heavenly body other than the sun, moon, comets, and nebulae. \ (n.) The polestar; the north star. \ (n.) A planet supposed to influence one's destiny; (usually pl.) a configuration of the planets, supposed to influence fortune. \ (n.) That which resembles the figure of a star, as an ornament worn on the breast to indicate rank or honor. \ (n.) Specifically, a radiated mark in writing or printing; an asterisk [thus, *]; -- used as a reference to a note, or to fill a blank where something is omitted, etc. \ (n.) A composition of combustible matter used in the heading of rockets, in mines, etc., which, exploding in the air, presents a starlike appearance. \ (n.) A person of brilliant and attractive qualities, especially on public occasions, as a distinguished orator, a leading theatrical performer, etc. \ (v. t.) To set or adorn with stars, or bright, radiating bodies; to bespangle; as, a robe starred with gems. \ (v. i.) To be bright, or attract attention, as a star; to shine like a star; to be brilliant or prominent; to play a part as a theatrical star.
ins start v. to begin; to make something begin \ (v. i.) To leap; to jump. \ (v. i.) To move suddenly, as with a spring or leap, from surprise, pain, or other sudden feeling or emotion, or by a voluntary act. \ (v. i.) To set out; to commence a course, as a race or journey; to begin; as, to start business. \ (v. i.) To become somewhat displaced or loosened, a rivet or a seam may start under strain or pressure. \ (v. t.) To cause to move suddenly; to disturb suddenly; to startle; to alarm; to rouse; to cause to flee or fly, the hounds started a fox. \ (v. t.) To bring onto being or into view; to originate; to invent. \ (v. t.) To cause to move or act; to set going, running, or flowing, to start a railway train; to start a mill; to start a stream of water; to start a rumor; to start a business. \ (v. t.) To move suddenly from its place or position; to displace or loosen; to dislocate, to start a bone; the storm started the bolts in the vessel. \ (v. t.) To pour out; to empty; to tap and begin drawing from, to start a water cask. \ (n.) The act of starting; a sudden spring, leap, or motion, caused by surprise, fear, or the like; any sudden motion, or beginning of motion. \ (n.) A convulsive motion, twitch, or spasm; a spasmodic effort. \ (n.) A sudden, unexpected movement; a sudden and capricious impulse; a sally, starts of fancy. \ (n.) The beginning, as of a journey or a course of action; first motion from a place; act of setting out; the outset; -- opposed to finish. \ (v. i.) A tail, or anything projecting like a tail. \ (v. i.) The handle, or tail, of a plow; also, any long handle. \ (v. i.) The curved or inclined front and bottom of a water-wheel bucket. \ (v. i.) The arm, or level, of a gin, drawn around by a horse.
ins station n. a place of special work or purpose ("a police station"); a place where passengers get on or off trains or buses; a place for radio or television broadcasts \ (n.) The act of standing; also, attitude or pose in standing; posture. \ (n.) A state of standing or rest; equilibrium. \ (n.) The spot or place where anything stands, especially where a person or thing habitually stands, or is appointed to remain for a time; as, the station of a sentinel. \ (n.) A regular stopping place in a stage road or route; a place where railroad trains regularly come to a stand, for the convenience of passengers, taking in fuel, moving freight, etc. \ (n.) The headquarters of the police force of any precinct. \ (n.) The place at which an instrument is planted, or observations are made, as in surveying. \ (n.) The particular place, or kind of situation, in which a species naturally occurs; a habitat. \ (n.) A place to which ships may resort, and where they may anchor safely. \ (n.) A place or region to which a government ship or fleet is assigned for duty. \ (n.) A place calculated for the rendezvous of troops, or for the distribution of them, a spot well adapted for offensive measures. Wilhelm (Mil. Dict.). \ (n.) An enlargement in a shaft or galley, used as a landing, or passing place, or for the accomodation of a pump, tank, etc. \ (n.) Post assigned; office; the part or department of public duty which a person is appointed to perform; sphere of duty or occupation; employment. \ (n.) Situation; position; location. \ (n.) State; rank; condition of life; social status. \ (n.) The fast of the fourth and sixth days of the week, Wednesday and Friday, in memory of the council which condemned Christ, and of his passion. \ (n.) A church in which the procession of the clergy halts on stated days to say stated prayers. \ (n.) One of the places at which ecclesiastical processions pause for the performance of an act of devotion; formerly, the tomb of a martyr, or some similarly consecrated spot; now, especially, one of those representations of the successive stages of our Lord's passion which are often placed round the naves of large churches and by the side of the way leading to sacred edifices or shrines, and which are visited in rotation, stated services being performed at each; -- called also Station of the cross. \ (v. t.) To place; to set; to appoint or assign to the occupation of a post, place, or office, to station troops on the right of an army; to station a sentinel on a rampart; to station ships on the coasts of Africa. \ (n.) In Australia, a sheep run or cattle run, together with the buildings belonging to it, the homestead and buildings belonging to such a run.
ins stay v. to continue to be where one is; to remain; to not leave; to live for a time ("They stayed in New York for two years.") \ (n.) A large, strong rope, employed to support a mast, by being extended from the head of one mast down to some other, or to some part of the vessel. Those which lead forward are called fore-and-aft stays; those which lead to the vessel's side are called backstays. See Illust. of Ship. \ (v. i.) To stop from motion or falling; to prop; to fix firmly; to hold up; to support. \ (v. i.) To support from sinking; to sustain with strength; to satisfy in part or for the time. \ (v. i.) To bear up under; to endure; to support; to resist successfully. \ (v. i.) To hold from proceeding; to withhold; to restrain; to stop; to hold. \ (v. i.) To hinde/; to delay; to detain; to keep back. \ (v. i.) To remain for the purpose of; to wait for. \ (v. i.) To cause to cease; to put an end to. \ (v. i.) To fasten or secure with stays; as, to stay a flat sheet in a steam boiler. \ (v. i.) To tack, as a vessel, so that the other side of the vessel shall be presented to the wind. \ (v. i.) To remain; to continue in a place; to abide fixed for a space of time; to stand still. \ (v. i.) To continue in a state. \ (v. i.) To wait; to attend; to forbear to act. \ (v. i.) To dwell; to tarry; to linger. \ (v. i.) To rest; to depend; to rely; to stand; to insist. \ (v. i.) To come to an end; to cease, that day the storm stayed. \ (v. i.) To hold out in a race or other contest, a horse stays well. \ (v. i.) To change tack; as a ship. \ (n.) That which serves as a prop; a support. \ (n.) A corset stiffened with whalebone or other material, worn by women, and rarely by men. \ (n.) Continuance in a place; abode for a space of time; sojourn, you make a short stay in this city. \ (n.) Cessation of motion or progression; stand; stop. \ (n.) Hindrance; let; check. \ (n.) Restraint of passion; moderation; caution; steadiness; sobriety. \ (n.) Strictly, a part in tension to hold the parts together, or stiffen them.
ins step v. to move by lifting one foot and placing it in a new position; n. the act of stepping; one of a series of actions designed to reach a goal \ (a.) To move the foot in walking; to advance or recede by raising and moving one of the feet to another resting place, or by moving both feet in succession. \ (a.) To walk; to go on foot; esp., to walk a little distance; as, to step to one of the neighbors. \ (a.) To walk slowly, gravely, or resolutely. \ (a.) Fig.: To move mentally; to go in imagination. \ (v. t.) To set, as the foot. \ (v. t.) To fix the foot of (a mast) in its step; to erect. \ (v. i.) An advance or movement made by one removal of the foot; a pace. \ (v. i.) A rest, or one of a set of rests, for the foot in ascending or descending, as a stair, or a round of a ladder. \ (v. i.) The space passed over by one movement of the foot in walking or running, one step is generally about three feet, but may be more or less. Used also figuratively of any kind of progress, he improved step by step, or by steps. \ (v. i.) A small space or distance, it is but a step. \ (v. i.) A print of the foot; a footstep; a footprint; track. \ (v. i.) Gait; manner of walking, the approach of a man is often known by his step. \ (v. i.) Proceeding; measure; action; an act. \ (v. i.) Walk; passage. \ (v. i.) A portable framework of stairs, much used indoors in reaching to a high position. \ (v. i.) In general, a framing in wood or iron which is intended to receive an upright shaft; specif., a block of wood, or a solid platform upon the keelson, supporting the heel of the mast. \ (v. i.) One of a series of offsets, or parts, resembling the steps of stairs, as one of the series of parts of a cone pulley on which the belt runs. \ (v. i.) A bearing in which the lower extremity of a spindle or a vertical shaft revolves. \ (v. i.) The intervak between two contiguous degrees of the csale. \ (v. i.) A change of position effected by a motion of translation. \ (n.) At Eton College, England, a shallow step dividing the court into an inner and an outer portion.
ins still ad. not moving ("The man was standing still."); until the present or a stated time ("Was he still there?"); even so; although ("The job was difficult, but she still wanted to do it.") \ (adv.) Motionless; at rest; quiet; as, to stand still; to lie or sit still. \ (adv.) Uttering no sound; silent, the audience is still; the animals are still. \ (adv.) Not disturbed by noise or agitation; calm, a still evening; a still atmosphere. \ (adv.) Comparatively quiet or silent; soft; gentle; low. \ (adv.) Constant; continual. \ (adv.) Not effervescing; not sparkling, still wines. \ (n.) Freedom from noise; silence, the still of midnight. \ (n.) A steep hill or ascent. \ (a.) To this time; until and during the time now present; now no less than before; yet. \ (a.) In the future as now and before. \ (a.) In continuation by successive or repeated acts; always; ever; constantly; uniformly. \ (a.) In an increasing or additional degree; even more; -- much used with comparatives. \ (a.) Notwithstanding what has been said or done; in spite of what has occured; nevertheless; -- sometimes used as a conjunction. See Synonym of But. \ (a.) After that; after what is stated. \ (a.) To stop, as motion or agitation; to cause to become quiet, or comparatively quiet; to check the agitation of, to still the raging sea. \ (a.) To stop, as noise; to silence. \ (a.) To appease; to calm; to quiet, as tumult, agitation, or excitement, to still the passions. \ (v.) A vessel, boiler, or copper used in the distillation of liquids; specifically, one used for the distillation of alcoholic liquors; a retort. The name is sometimes applied to the whole apparatus used in in vaporization and condensation. \ (v.) A house where liquors are distilled; a distillery. \ (v. t.) To cause to fall by drops. \ (v. t.) To expel spirit from by heat, or to evaporate and condense in a refrigeratory; to distill. \ (v. i.) To drop, or flow in drops; to distill.
ins stone n. a small piece of rock \ (n.) Concreted earthy or mineral matter; also, any particular mass of such matter; as, a house built of stone; the boy threw a stone; pebbles are rounded stones. \ (n.) A precious stone; a gem. \ (n.) Something made of stone. Specifically: - \ (n.) The glass of a mirror; a mirror. \ (n.) A monument to the dead; a gravestone. \ (n.) A calculous concretion, especially one in the kidneys or bladder; the disease arising from a calculus. \ (n.) One of the testes; a testicle. \ (n.) The hard endocarp of drupes, the stone of a cherry or peach. See Illust. of Endocarp. \ (n.) A weight which legally is fourteen pounds, but in practice varies with the article weighed. \ (n.) Fig.: Symbol of hardness and insensibility; torpidness; insensibility, a heart of stone. \ (n.) A stand or table with a smooth, flat top of stone, commonly marble, on which to arrange the pages of a book, newspaper, etc., before printing; -- called also imposing stone. \ (n.) To pelt, beat, or kill with stones. \ (n.) To make like stone; to harden. \ (n.) To free from stones, to remove the seeds of, to stone a field; to stone cherries; to stone raisins. \ (n.) To wall or face with stones; to line or fortify with stones, to stone a well; to stone a cellar. \ (n.) To rub, scour, or sharpen with a stone.
ins stop v. to prevent any more movement or action; to come or bring to an end \ (v. t.) To close, as an aperture, by filling or by obstructing; as, to stop the ears; hence, to stanch, as a wound. \ (v. t.) To obstruct; to render impassable, to stop a way, road, or passage. \ (v. t.) To arrest the progress of; to hinder; to impede; to shut in, to stop a traveler; to stop the course of a stream, or a flow of blood. \ (v. t.) To hinder from acting or moving; to prevent the effect or efficiency of; to cause to cease; to repress; to restrain; to suppress; to interrupt; to suspend, to stop the execution of a decree, the progress of vice, the approaches of old age or infirmity. \ (v. t.) To regulate the sounds of, as musical strings, by pressing them against the finger board with the finger, or by shortening in any way the vibrating part. \ (v. t.) To point, as a composition; to punctuate. \ (v. t.) To make fast; to stopper. \ (v. i.) To cease to go on; to halt, or stand still; to come to a stop. \ (v. i.) To cease from any motion, or course of action. \ (v. i.) To spend a short time; to reside temporarily; to stay; to tarry, to stop with a friend. \ (n.) The act of stopping, or the state of being stopped; hindrance of progress or of action; cessation; repression; interruption; check; obstruction. \ (n.) That which stops, impedes, or obstructs; as obstacle; an impediment; an obstruction. \ (n.) A device, or piece, as a pin, block, pawl, etc., for arresting or limiting motion, or for determining the position to which another part shall be brought. \ (n.) The closing of an aperture in the air passage, or pressure of the finger upon the string, of an instrument of music, so as to modify the tone, any contrivance by which the sounds of a musical instrument are regulated. \ (n.) In the organ, one of the knobs or handles at each side of the organist, by which he can draw on or shut off any register or row of pipes; the register itself, the vox humana stop. \ (n.) A member, plain or molded, formed of a separate piece and fixed to a jamb, against which a door or window shuts. This takes the place, or answers the purpose, of a rebate. Also, a pin or block to prevent a drawer from sliding too far. \ (n.) A point or mark in writing or printing intended to distinguish the sentences, parts of a sentence, or clauses; a mark of punctuation. See Punctuation. \ (n.) The diaphragm used in optical instruments to cut off the marginal portions of a beam of light passing through lenses. \ (n.) The depression in the face of a dog between the skull and the nasal bones. It is conspicuous in the bulldog, pug, and some other breeds. \ (n.) Some part of the articulating organs, as the lips, or the tongue and palate, closed (a) so as to cut off the passage of breath or voice through the mouth and the nose (distinguished as a lip-stop, or a front-stop, etc., as in p, t, d, etc.), or (b) so as to obstruct, but not entirely cut off, the passage, as in l, n; also, any of the consonants so formed.
ins store v. to keep or put away for future use; n. a place where people buy things \ (v. t.) That which is accumulated, or massed together; a source from which supplies may be drawn; hence, an abundance; a great quantity, or a great number. \ (v. t.) A place of deposit for goods, esp. for large quantities; a storehouse; a warehouse; a magazine. \ (v. t.) Any place where goods are sold, whether by wholesale or retail; a shop. \ (v. t.) Articles, especially of food, accumulated for some specific object; supplies, as of provisions, arms, ammunition, and the like; as, the stores of an army, of a ship, of a family. \ (a.) Accumulated; hoarded. \ (v. t.) To collect as a reserved supply; to accumulate; to lay away. \ (v. t.) To furnish; to supply; to replenish; esp., to stock or furnish against a future time. \ (v. t.) To deposit in a store, warehouse, or other building, for preservation; to warehouse, to store goods.
ins story n. the telling or writing of an event, either real or imagined \ (v. t.) A set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor, or the space between two floors. Also, a horizontal division of a building's exterior considered architecturally, which need not correspond exactly with the stories within. \ (n.) A narration or recital of that which has occurred; a description of past events; a history; a statement; a record. \ (n.) The relation of an incident or minor event; a short narrative; a tale; especially, a fictitious narrative less elaborate than a novel; a short romance. \ (n.) A euphemism or child's word for "a lie;" a fib; as, to tell a story. \ (v. t.) To tell in historical relation; to make the subject of a story; to narrate or describe in story.
ins straight ad. continuing in one direction without turns \ (a.) A variant of Strait, a. \ (superl.) Right, in a mathematical sense; passing from one point to another by the nearest course; direct; not deviating or crooked; as, a straight line or course; a straight piece of timber. \ (superl.) Approximately straight; not much curved, straight ribs are such as pass from the base of a leaf to the apex, with a small curve. \ (superl.) Composed of cards which constitute a regular sequence, as the ace, king, queen, jack, and ten-spot, a straight hand; a straight flush. \ (superl.) Conforming to justice and rectitude; not deviating from truth or fairness; upright, straight dealing. \ (superl.) Unmixed; undiluted, to take liquor straight. \ (superl.) Making no exceptions or deviations in one's support of the organization and candidates of a political party, a straight Republican; a straight Democrat; also, containing the names of all the regularly nominated candidates of a party and no others, a straight ballot. \ (adv.) In a straight manner; directly; rightly; forthwith; immediately, the arrow went straight to the mark. \ (n.) A hand of five cards in consecutive order as to value; a sequence. When they are of one suit, it is calles straight flush. \ (v. t.) To straighten.
ins strange ad. unusual; not normal; not known \ (superl.) Belonging to another country; foreign. \ (superl.) Of or pertaining to others; not one's own; not pertaining to one's self; not domestic. \ (superl.) Not before known, heard, or seen; new. \ (superl.) Not according to the common way; novel; odd; unusual; irregular; extraordinary; unnatural; queer. \ (superl.) Reserved; distant in deportment. \ (superl.) Backward; slow. \ (superl.) Not familiar; unaccustomed; inexperienced. \ (adv.) Strangely. \ (v. t.) To alienate; to estrange. \ (v. i.) To be estranged or alienated. \ (v. i.) To wonder; to be astonished.
ins street n. a road in a city, town or village \ (a.) Originally, a paved way or road; a public highway; now commonly, a thoroughfare in a city or village, bordered by dwellings or business houses.
ins strong ad. having much power; not easily broken, damaged or destroyed \ (superl.) Having active physical power, or great physical power to act; having a power of exerting great bodily force; vigorous. \ (superl.) Having passive physical power; having ability to bear or endure; firm; hale; sound; robust; as, a strong constitution; strong health. \ (superl.) Solid; tough; not easily broken or injured; able to withstand violence; able to sustain attacks; not easily subdued or taken, a strong beam; a strong rock; a strong fortress or town. \ (superl.) Having great military or naval force; powerful, a strong army or fleet; a nation strong at sea. \ (superl.) Having great wealth, means, or resources, a strong house, or company of merchants. \ (superl.) Reaching a certain degree or limit in respect to strength or numbers, an army ten thousand strong. \ (superl.) Moving with rapidity or force; violent; forcible; impetuous, a strong current of water or wind; the wind was strong from the northeast; a strong tide. \ (superl.) Adapted to make a deep or effectual impression on the mind or imagination; striking or superior of the kind; cogent, a strong argument; strong reasons; strong evidence; a strong example; strong language. \ (superl.) Ardent; eager; zealous; earnestly engaged, a strong partisan; a strong Whig or Tory. \ (superl.) Having virtues of great efficacy; or, having a particular quality in a great degree, a strong powder or tincture; a strong decoction; strong tea or coffee. \ (superl.) Full of spirit; containing a large proportion of alcohol; intoxicating, strong liquors. \ (superl.) Affecting any sense powerfully, strong light, colors, etc.; a strong flavor of onions; a strong scent. \ (superl.) Solid; nourishing, strong meat. \ (superl.) Well established; not easily overthrown or altered, a strong custom; a strong belief. \ (superl.) Violent; vehement; earnest; ardent. \ (superl.) Having great force, vigor, power, or the like, as the mind, intellect, or any faculty, a man of a strong mind, memory, judgment, or imagination. \ (superl.) Vigorous; effective; powerful. \ (superl.) Tending to higher prices; rising, a strong market. \ (superl.) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) by a variation in the root vowel, and the past participle (usually) by the addition of -en (with or without a change of the root vowel); as in the verbs strive, strove, striven; break, broke, broken; drink, drank, drunk. Opposed to weak, or regular. See Weak. \ (superl.) Applied to forms in Anglo-Saxon, which retain the old declensional endings. In the Teutonic languages the vowel stems have held the original endings most firmly, and are called strong; the stems in -n are called weak other constant stems conform, or are irregular.
ins student (n.) A person engaged in study; one who is devoted to learning; a learner; a pupil; a scholar; especially, one who attends a school, or who seeks knowledge from professional teachers or from books; as, the students of an academy, a college, or a university; a medical student; a hard student. \ (n.) One who studies or examines in any manner; an attentive and systematic observer, a student of human nature, or of physical nature.
ins study v. to make an effort to gain knowledge by using the mind; to examine carefully \ (v. i.) A setting of the mind or thoughts upon a subject; hence, application of mind to books, arts, or science, or to any subject, for the purpose of acquiring knowledge. \ (v. i.) Mental occupation; absorbed or thoughtful attention; meditation; contemplation. \ (v. i.) Any particular branch of learning that is studied; any object of attentive consideration. \ (v. i.) A building or apartment devoted to study or to literary work. \ (v. i.) A representation or rendering of any object or scene intended, not for exhibition as an original work of art, but for the information, instruction, or assistance of the maker; as, a study of heads or of hands for a figure picture. \ (v. i.) A piece for special practice. See Etude. \ (n.) To fix the mind closely upon a subject; to dwell upon anything in thought; to muse; to ponder. \ (n.) To apply the mind to books or learning. \ (n.) To endeavor diligently; to be zealous. \ (v. t.) To apply the mind to; to read and examine for the purpose of learning and understanding, to study law or theology; to study languages. \ (v. t.) To consider attentively; to examine closely, to study the work of nature. \ (v. t.) To form or arrange by previous thought; to con over, as in committing to memory, to study a speech. \ (v. t.) To make an object of study; to aim at sedulously; to devote one's thoughts to, to study the welfare of others; to study variety in composition.
ins subway (n.) An underground way or gallery; especially, a passage under a street, in which water mains, gas mains, telegraph wires, etc., are conducted.
ins such ad. of this or that kind; of the same kind as; similar to \ (a.) Of that kind; of the like kind; like; resembling; similar; as, we never saw such a day; -- followed by that or as introducing the word or proposition which defines the similarity, or the standard of comparison, the books are not such that I can recommend them, or, not such as I can recommend; these apples are not such as those we saw yesterday; give your children such precepts as tend to make them better. \ (a.) Having the particular quality or character specified. \ (a.) The same that; -- with as, this was the state of the kingdom at such time as the enemy landed. \ (a.) Certain; -- representing the object as already particularized in terms which are not mentioned.
ins sugar n. a sweet substance made from liquids taken from plants \ (n.) A sweet white (or brownish yellow) crystalline substance, of a sandy or granular consistency, obtained by crystallizing the evaporated juice of certain plants, as the sugar cane, sorghum, beet root, sugar maple, etc. It is used for seasoning and preserving many kinds of food and drink. Ordinary sugar is essentially sucrose. See the Note below. \ (n.) By extension, anything resembling sugar in taste or appearance; as, sugar of lead (lead acetate), a poisonous white crystalline substance having a sweet taste. \ (n.) Compliment or flattery used to disguise or render acceptable something obnoxious; honeyed or soothing words. \ (v. i.) In making maple sugar, to complete the process of boiling down the sirup till it is thick enough to crystallize; to approach or reach the state of granulation; -- with the preposition off. \ (v. t.) To impregnate, season, cover, or sprinkle with sugar; to mix sugar with. \ (v. t.) To cover with soft words; to disguise by flattery; to compliment; to sweeten, to sugar reproof.
ins suit (n.) The act of following or pursuing, as game; pursuit. \ (n.) The act of suing; the process by which one endeavors to gain an end or an object; an attempt to attain a certain result; pursuit; endeavor. \ (n.) The act of wooing in love; the solicitation of a woman in marriage; courtship. \ (n.) The attempt to gain an end by legal process; an action or process for the recovery of a right or claim; legal application to a court for justice; prosecution of right before any tribunal; as, a civil suit; a criminal suit; a suit in chancery. \ (n.) That which follows as a retinue; a company of attendants or followers; the assembly of persons who attend upon a prince, magistrate, or other person of distinction; -- often written suite, and pronounced sw/t. \ (n.) Things that follow in a series or succession; the individual objects, collectively considered, which constitute a series, as of rooms, buildings, compositions, etc., and pronounced sw/t. \ (n.) A number of things used together, and generally necessary to be united in order to answer their purpose; a number of things ordinarily classed or used together; a set, a suit of curtains; a suit of armor; a suit of clothes. \ (n.) One of the four sets of cards which constitute a pack; -- each set consisting of thirteen cards bearing a particular emblem, as hearts, spades, cubs, or diamonds. \ (n.) Regular order; succession. \ (v. t.) To fit; to adapt; to make proper or suitable, to suit the action to the word. \ (v. t.) To be fitted to; to accord with; to become; to befit. \ (v. t.) To dress; to clothe. \ (v. t.) To please; to make content, he is well suited with his place; to suit one's taste. \ (v. i.) To agree; to accord; to be fitted; to correspond; -- usually followed by with or to.
ins summer n. the warmest time of the year, between spring and autumn \ (v.) One who sums; one who casts up an account. \ (n.) A large stone or beam placed horizontally on columns, piers, posts, or the like, serving for various uses. Specifically: (a) The lintel of a door or window. (b) The commencement of a cross vault. (c) A central floor timber, as a girder, or a piece reaching from a wall to a girder. Called also summertree. \ (n.) The season of the year in which the sun shines most directly upon any region; the warmest period of the year. \ (v. i.) To pass the summer; to spend the warm season; as, to summer in Switzerland. \ (v. t.) To keep or carry through the summer; to feed during the summer, to summer stock.
ins sun n. the huge star in the sky that provides heat and light to earth \ (n.) See Sunn. \ (n.) The luminous orb, the light of which constitutes day, and its absence night; the central body round which the earth and planets revolve, by which they are held in their orbits, and from which they receive light and heat. Its mean distance from the earth is about 92,500,000 miles, and its diameter about 860,000. \ (n.) Any heavenly body which forms the center of a system of orbs. \ (n.) The direct light or warmth of the sun; sunshine. \ (n.) That which resembles the sun, as in splendor or importance; any source of light, warmth, or animation. \ (v. t.) To expose to the sun's rays; to warm or dry in the sun; as, to sun cloth; to sun grain.
ins sure ad. very probable; with good reason to believe; true without question \ (superl.) Certainly knowing and believing; confident beyond doubt; implicity trusting; unquestioning; positive. \ (superl.) Certain to find or retain; as, to be sure of game; to be sure of success; to be sure of life or health. \ (superl.) Fit or worthy to be depended on; certain not to fail or disappoint expectation; unfailing; strong; permanent; enduring. \ (superl.) Betrothed; engaged to marry. \ (superl.) Free from danger; safe; secure. \ (adv.) In a sure manner; safely; certainly.
ins surprise v. to cause a feeling of wonder because something is not expected; n. something not expected; the feeling caused by something not expected \ (n.) The act of coming upon, or taking, unawares; the act of seizing unexpectedly; surprisal; as, the fort was taken by surprise. \ (n.) The state of being surprised, or taken unawares, by some act or event which could not reasonably be foreseen; emotion excited by what is sudden and strange; a suddenly excited feeling of wonder or astonishment. \ (n.) Anything that causes such a state or emotion. \ (n.) A dish covered with a crust of raised paste, but with no other contents. \ (n.) To come or fall suddenly and unexpectedly; to take unawares; to seize or capture by unexpected attack. \ (n.) To strike with wonder, astonishment, or confusion, by something sudden, unexpected, or remarkable; to confound, his conduct surprised me. \ (n.) To lead (one) to do suddenly and without forethought; to bring (one) into some unexpected state; -- with into, to be surprised into an indiscretion; to be surprised into generosity. \ (n.) To hold possession of; to hold.
ins sweet ad. tasting pleasant, like sugar \ (superl.) Having an agreeable taste or flavor such as that of sugar; saccharine; -- opposed to sour and bitter; as, a sweet beverage; sweet fruits; sweet oranges. \ (superl.) Pleasing to the smell; fragrant; redolent; balmy, a sweet rose; sweet odor; sweet incense. \ (superl.) Pleasing to the ear; soft; melodious; harmonious, the sweet notes of a flute or an organ; sweet music; a sweet voice; a sweet singer. \ (superl.) Pleasing to the eye; beautiful; mild and attractive; fair, a sweet face; a sweet color or complexion. \ (superl.) Fresh; not salt or brackish, sweet water. \ (superl.) Not changed from a sound or wholesome state. Specifically: (a) Not sour, sweet milk or bread. (b) Not state; not putrescent or putrid; not rancid, sweet butter; sweet meat or fish. \ (superl.) Plaesing to the mind; mild; gentle; calm; amiable; winning; presuasive, sweet manners. \ (n.) That which is sweet to the taste; -- used chiefly in the plural. \ (n.) Confectionery, sweetmeats, preserves, etc. \ (n.) Home-made wines, cordials, metheglin, etc. \ (n.) That which is sweet or pleasant in odor; a perfume. \ (n.) That which is pleasing or grateful to the mind, the sweets of domestic life. \ (n.) One who is dear to another; a darling; -- a term of endearment. \ (adv.) Sweetly. \ (v. t.) To sweeten.
ins swim v. to move through water by making motions with the arms and legs \ (v. i.) To be supported by water or other fluid; not to sink; to float; as, any substance will swim, whose specific gravity is less than that of the fluid in which it is immersed. \ (v. i.) To move progressively in water by means of strokes with the hands and feet, or the fins or the tail. \ (v. i.) To be overflowed or drenched. \ (v. i.) Fig.: To be as if borne or floating in a fluid. \ (v. i.) To be filled with swimming animals. \ (v. t.) To pass or move over or on by swimming, to swim a stream. \ (v. t.) To cause or compel to swim; to make to float, to swim a horse across a river. \ (v. t.) To immerse in water that the lighter parts may float, to swim wheat in order to select seed. \ (n.) The act of swimming; a gliding motion, like that of one swimming. \ (n.) The sound, or air bladder, of a fish. \ (n.) A part of a stream much frequented by fish. \ (v. i.) To be dizzy; to have an unsteady or reeling sensation, the head swims.
ins switch (n.) A small, flexible twig or rod. \ (n.) A movable part of a rail; or of opposite rails, for transferring cars from one track to another. \ (n.) A separate mass or trees of hair, or of some substance (at jute) made to resemble hair, worn on the head by women. \ (n.) A mechanical device for shifting an electric current to another circuit. \ (v. t.) To strike with a switch or small flexible rod; to whip. \ (v. t.) To swing or whisk; as, to switch a cane. \ (v. t.) To trim, a hedge. \ (v. t.) To turn from one railway track to another; to transfer by a switch; -- generally with off, from, etc., to switch off a train; to switch a car from one track to another. \ (v. t.) To shift to another circuit. \ (v. i.) To walk with a jerk. \ (n.) A device for shifting an electric current to another circuit, or for making and breaking a circuit.
ins table (n.) A smooth, flat surface, like the side of a board; a thin, flat, smooth piece of anything; a slab. \ (n.) A thin, flat piece of wood, stone, metal, or other material, on which anything is cut, traced, written, or painted; a tablet \ (n.) a memorandum book. \ (n.) Any smooth, flat surface upon which an inscription, a drawing, or the like, may be produced. \ (n.) Hence, in a great variety of applications: A condensed statement which may be comprehended by the eye in a single view; a methodical or systematic synopsis; the presentation of many items or particulars in one group; a scheme; a schedule. \ (n.) A view of the contents of a work; a statement of the principal topics discussed; an index; a syllabus; a synopsis; as, a table of contents. \ (n.) A list of substances and their properties; especially, a list of the elementary substances with their atomic weights, densities, symbols, etc. \ (n.) Any collection and arrangement in a condensed form of many particulars or values, for ready reference, as of weights, measures, currency, specific gravities, etc.; also, a series of numbers following some law, and expressing particular values corresponding to certain other numbers on which they depend, and by means of which they are taken out for use in computations, tables of logarithms, sines, tangents, squares, cubes; annuity tables; interest tables; astronomical tables, etc. \ (n.) The arrangement or disposition of the lines which appear on the inside of the hand. \ (n.) An article of furniture, consisting of a flat slab, board, having a smooth surface, fixed horizontally on legs, and used for a great variety of purposes, as in eating, writing, or working. \ (n.) Hence, food placed on a table to be partaken of; fare; entertainment, to set a good table. \ (n.) The company assembled round a table. \ (n.) One of the two, external and internal, layers of compact bone, separated by diploe, in the walls of the cranium. \ (n.) A stringcourse which includes an offset; esp., a band of stone, set where an offset is required, so as to make it decorative. See Water table. \ (n.) The board on the opposite sides of which backgammon and draughts are played. \ (n.) One of the divisions of a backgammon board, to play into the right-hand table. \ (n.) The games of backgammon and of draughts. \ (n.) A circular plate of crown glass. \ (n.) The upper flat surface of a diamond or other precious stone, the sides of which are cut in angles. \ (n.) A plane surface, supposed to be transparent and perpendicular to the horizon; -- called also perspective plane. \ (n.) The part of a machine tool on which the work rests and is fastened. \ (v. t.) To form into a table or catalogue; to tabulate, to table fines. \ (v. t.) To delineate, as on a table; to represent, as in a picture. \ (v. t.) To supply with food; to feed. \ (v. t.) To insert, as one piece of timber into another, by alternate scores or projections from the middle, to prevent slipping; to scarf.
ins take v. to put a hand or hands around something and hold it, often to move it to another place; to carry something ; to seize; to capture; to begin to be in control ("The president takes office tomorrow.")
ins talk v. to express thoughts in spoken words; n. a meeting for discussion \ (n.) To utter words; esp., to converse familiarly; to speak, as in familiar discourse, when two or more persons interchange thoughts. \ (n.) To confer; to reason; to consult. \ (n.) To prate; to speak impertinently. \ (v. t.) To speak freely; to use for conversing or communicating; as, to talk French. \ (v. t.) To deliver in talking; to utter; to make a subject of conversation, to talk nonsense; to talk politics. \ (v. t.) To consume or spend in talking; -- often followed by away, to talk away an evening. \ (v. t.) To cause to be or become by talking. \ (n.) The act of talking; especially, familiar converse; mutual discourse; that which is uttered, especially in familiar conversation, or the mutual converse of two or more. \ (n.) Report; rumor, to hear talk of war. \ (n.) Subject of discourse, his achievment is the talk of the town.
ins tall ad. higher than others; opposite short \ (superl.) High in stature; having a considerable, or an unusual, extension upward; long and comparatively slender; having the diameter or lateral extent small in proportion to the height; as, a tall person, tree, or mast. \ (superl.) Brave; bold; courageous. \ (superl.) Fine; splendid; excellent; also, extravagant; excessive.
ins tape (n.) A narrow fillet or band of cotton or linen; a narrow woven fabric used for strings and the like; as, curtains tied with tape. \ (n.) A tapeline; also, a metallic ribbon so marked as to serve as a tapeline, a steel tape. \ (v. t.) To furnish with tape; to fasten, tie, bind, or the like, with tape; \ (v. t.) to cover (a wire) with insulating tape. \ (v. t.) to record on audio tape or video tape; -- either directly, at the scene of the action tape, or indirectly, as from a broadcast of the action.
ins taste v. to sense through the mouth ("The fruit tastes sweet.") \ (v. t.) To try by the touch; to handle; as, to taste a bow. \ (v. t.) To try by the touch of the tongue; to perceive the relish or flavor of (anything) by taking a small quantity into a mouth. Also used figuratively. \ (v. t.) To try by eating a little; to eat a small quantity of. \ (v. t.) To become acquainted with by actual trial; to essay; to experience; to undergo. \ (v. t.) To partake of; to participate in; -- usually with an implied sense of relish or pleasure. \ (v. i.) To try food with the mouth; to eat or drink a little only; to try the flavor of anything, to taste of each kind of wine. \ (v. i.) To have a smack; to excite a particular sensation, by which the specific quality or flavor is distinguished; to have a particular quality or character, this water tastes brackish; the milk tastes of garlic. \ (v. i.) To take sparingly. \ (v. i.) To have perception, experience, or enjoyment; to partake, to taste of nature's bounty. \ (n.) The act of tasting; gustation. \ (n.) A particular sensation excited by the application of a substance to the tongue; the quality or savor of any substance as perceived by means of the tongue; flavor, the taste of an orange or an apple; a bitter taste; an acid taste; a sweet taste. \ (n.) The one of the five senses by which certain properties of bodies (called their taste, savor, flavor) are ascertained by contact with the organs of taste. \ (n.) Intellectual relish; liking; fondness; -- formerly with of, now with for, he had no taste for study. \ (n.) The power of perceiving and relishing excellence in human performances; the faculty of discerning beauty, order, congruity, proportion, symmetry, or whatever constitutes excellence, particularly in the fine arts and belles-letters; critical judgment; discernment. \ (n.) Manner, with respect to what is pleasing, refined, or in accordance with good usage; style, music composed in good taste; an epitaph in bad taste. \ (n.) Essay; trial; experiment. \ (n.) A small portion given as a specimen; a little piece tastted of eaten; a bit. \ (n.) A kind of narrow and thin silk ribbon.
ins tea n. a drink made from the plant of the same name \ (n.) The prepared leaves of a shrub, or small tree (Thea \ (n.) A decoction or infusion of tea leaves in boiling water; as, tea is a common beverage. \ (n.) Any infusion or decoction, especially when made of the dried leaves of plants; as, sage tea; chamomile tea; catnip tea. \ (n.) The evening meal, at which tea is usually served; supper. \ (v. i.) To take or drink tea. / Camellia, Chinensis). The shrub is a native of China, but has been introduced to some extent into some other countries.
ins teach v. to show how to do something; to provide knowledge; to cause to understand \ (v. t.) To impart the knowledge of; to give intelligence concerning; to impart, as knowledge before unknown, or rules for practice; to inculcate as true or important; to exhibit impressively; as, to teach arithmetic, dancing, music, or the like; to teach morals. \ (v. t.) To direct, as an instructor; to manage, as a preceptor; to guide the studies of; to instruct; to inform; to conduct through a course of studies, to teach a child or a class. \ (v. t.) To accustom; to guide; to show; to admonish. \ (v. i.) To give instruction; to follow the business, or to perform the duties, of a preceptor.
ins teacher (n.) One who teaches or instructs; one whose business or occupation is to instruct others; an instructor; a tutor. \ (n.) One who instructs others in religion; a preacher; a minister of the gospel; sometimes, one who preaches without regular ordination.
ins team n. a group organized for some purpose, often for sports \ (n.) A group of young animals, especially of young ducks; a brood; a litter. \ (n.) Hence, a number of animals moving together. \ (n.) Two or more horses, oxen, or other beasts harnessed to the same vehicle for drawing, as to a coach, wagon, sled, or the like. \ (n.) A number of persons associated together in any work; a gang; especially, a number of persons selected to contend on one side in a match, or a series of matches, in a cricket, football, rowing, etc. \ (n.) A flock of wild ducks. \ (n.) A royalty or privilege granted by royal charter to a lord of a manor, of having, keeping, and judging in his court, his bondmen, neifes, and villains, and their offspring, or suit, that is, goods and chattels, and appurtenances thereto. \ (v. i.) To engage in the occupation of driving a team of horses, cattle, or the like, as in conveying or hauling lumber, goods, etc.; to be a teamster. \ (v. t.) To convey or haul with a team; as, to team lumber.
ins telephone n. a device or system for sending sounds, especially the voice, over distances \ (n.) An instrument for reproducing sounds, especially articulate speech, at a distance. \ (v. t.) To convey or announce by telephone.
ins television n. a device that receives electronic signals and makes them into pictures and sounds; the system of sending pictures and sounds by electronic signals over a distance so others can see and hear them on a receiver
ins tell v. to give information; to make known by speaking; to order; to command \ (v. t.) To mention one by one, or piece by piece; to recount; to enumerate; to reckon; to number; to count; as, to tell money. \ (v. t.) To utter or recite in detail; to give an account of; to narrate. \ (v. t.) To make known; to publish; to disclose; to divulge. \ (v. t.) To give instruction to; to make report to; to acquaint; to teach; to inform. \ (v. t.) To order; to request; to command. \ (v. t.) To discern so as to report; to ascertain by observing; to find out; to discover, I can not tell where one color ends and the other begins. \ (v. t.) To make account of; to regard; to value; to estimate. \ (v. i.) To give an account; to make report. \ (v. i.) To take effect; to produce a marked effect, every shot tells; every expression tells. \ (n.) That which is told; tale; account. \ (n.) A hill or mound.
ins ten (a.) One more than nine; twice five. \ (n.) The number greater by one than nine; the sum of five and five; ten units of objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing ten units, as 10, x, or X.
ins tennis (n.) A play in which a ball is driven to and fro, or kept in motion by striking it with a racket or with the open hand. \ (v. t.) To drive backward and forward, as a ball in playing tennis.
ins tent (n.) A kind of wine of a deep red color, chiefly from Galicia or Malaga in Spain; -- called also tent wine, and tinta. \ (n.) Attention; regard, care. \ (n.) Intention; design. \ (v. t.) To attend to; to heed; hence, to guard; to hinder. \ (v. t.) To probe or to search with a tent; to keep open with a tent; as, to tent a wound. Used also figuratively. \ (n.) A roll of lint or linen, or a conical or cylindrical piece of sponge or other absorbent, used chiefly to dilate a natural canal, to keep open the orifice of a wound, or to absorb discharges. \ (n.) A probe for searching a wound. \ (n.) A pavilion or portable lodge consisting of skins, canvas, or some strong cloth, stretched and sustained by poles, -- used for sheltering persons from the weather, especially soldiers in camp. \ (n.) The representation of a tent used as a bearing. \ (v. i.) To lodge as a tent; to tabernacle.
ins test v. to attempt to learn or prove what something is like or how it will act by studying or doing ("The scientists will test the new engine soon."); n. an attempt to learn or prove what something is like or how it will act by studying or doing ("The test of the new engine takes place today."); a group of questions or problems used to find out a person's knowledge ("The students did well on the language test.") \ (n.) A cupel or cupelling hearth in which precious metals are melted for trial and refinement. \ (n.) Examination or trial by the cupel; hence, any critical examination or decisive trial; as, to put a man's assertions to a test. \ (n.) Means of trial, absence is a test of love. \ (n.) That with which anything is compared for proof of its genuineness; a touchstone; a standard. \ (n.) Discriminative characteristic; standard of judgment; ground of admission or exclusion. \ (n.) Judgment; distinction; discrimination. \ (n.) A reaction employed to recognize or distinguish any particular substance or constituent of a compound, as the production of some characteristic precipitate; also, the reagent employed to produce such reaction; thus, the ordinary test for sulphuric acid is the production of a white insoluble precipitate of barium sulphate by means of some soluble barium salt. \ (v. t.) To refine, as gold or silver, in a test, or cupel; to subject to cupellation. \ (v. t.) To put to the proof; to prove the truth, genuineness, or quality of by experiment, or by some principle or standard; to try, to test the soundness of a principle; to test the validity of an argument. \ (v. t.) To examine or try, as by the use of some reagent, to test a solution by litmus paper. \ (n.) A witness. \ (v. i.) To make a testament, or will. \ (n.) Alt. of Testa
ins than conj. connecting word used to link things that may be similar, but are not equal ("My sister is taller than I am.") \ (conj.) A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want. \ (adv.) Then. See Then.
ins thank v. to say that one has a good feeling toward another because that person did something kind ("I want to thank you for helping me.") \ (n.) A expression of gratitude; an acknowledgment expressive of a sense of favor or kindness received; obligation, claim, or desert, or gratitude; -- now generally used in the plural. \ (n.) To express gratitude to (anyone) for a favor; to make acknowledgments to (anyone) for kindness bestowed; -- used also ironically for blame.
ins that ad. showing the person, place or thing being spoken about ("That man is a soldier."); pro. the person, place or thing being spoken about ("The building that I saw was very large.") \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has said is true; those in the basket are good apples. \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As an adjective, that has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun. \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As a relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who or which, serving to point out, and make definite, a person or thing spoken of, or alluded to, before, and may be either singular or plural. \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun. \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb. \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the reason that, because. \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc. \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce a consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so or such, sometimes by that. \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like. \ (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As adverb: To such a degree; so, he was that frightened he could say nothing.
ins the pro. used in front of a name word to show that it is a person or thing that is known about or is being spoken about \ (v. i.) See Thee. \ (definite article.) A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning. \ (adv.) By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform.
ins their (pron. & a.) The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country.
ins them pro. other people being spoken about \ (pron.) The objective case of they. See They.
ins then ad. at that time; existing; and so \ (adv.) At that time (referring to a time specified, either past or future). \ (adv.) Soon afterward, or immediately; next; afterward. \ (adv.) At another time; later; again. \ (conj.) Than. \ (conj.) In that case; in consequence; as a consequence; therefore; for this reason.
ins there ad. in that place or position; to or toward that place \ (pron.) In or at that place. \ (pron.) In that matter, relation, etc.; at that point, stage, regarded as a distinct place; as, he did not stop there, but continued his speech. \ (pron.) To or into that place; thither.
ins these pro. of or about the people, places or things nearby that have been spoken about already \ (pron.) The plural of this. See This. \ (pl. ) of This
ins they pro. those ones being spoken about \ (obj.) The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed.
ins thick ad. having a large distance between two opposite surfaces ("The wall is two meters thick."); having many parts close together ("The forest is very thick."); almost solid, such as a liquid that does not flow easily; opposite thin \ (superl.) Measuring in the third dimension other than length and breadth, or in general dimension other than length; -- said of a solid body; as, a timber seven inches thick. \ (superl.) Having more depth or extent from one surface to its opposite than usual; not thin or slender, a thick plank; thick cloth; thick paper; thick neck. \ (superl.) Dense; not thin; inspissated, thick vapors. Also used figuratively, thick darkness. \ (superl.) Not transparent or clear; hence, turbid, muddy, or misty, the water of a river is apt to be thick after a rain. \ (superl.) Abundant, close, or crowded in space; closely set; following in quick succession; frequently recurring. \ (superl.) Not having due distinction of syllables, or good articulation; indistinct, a thick utterance. \ (superl.) Deep; profound, thick sleep. \ (superl.) Dull; not quick, thick of fearing. \ (superl.) Intimate; very friendly; familiar. \ (n.) The thickest part, or the time when anything is thickest. \ (n.) A thicket, gloomy thicks. \ (adv.) Frequently; fast; quick. \ (adv.) Closely, a plat of ground thick sown. \ (adv.) To a great depth, or to a greater depth than usual, land covered thick with manure. \ (v. t. & i.) To thicken. \ dumb, unreasonable / He is a little bit thick and never understands what I want to say. 
ins thin ad. having a small distance between two opposite surfaces; not fat; not wide; opposite thick \ (superl.) Having little thickness or extent from one surface to its opposite; as, a thin plate of metal; thin paper; a thin board; a thin covering. \ (superl.) Rare; not dense or thick; -- applied to fluids or soft mixtures, thin blood; thin broth; thin air. \ (superl.) Not close; not crowded; not filling the space; not having the individuals of which the thing is composed in a close or compact state; hence, not abundant, the trees of a forest are thin; the corn or grass is thin. \ (superl.) Not full or well grown; wanting in plumpness. \ (superl.) Not stout; slim; slender; lean; gaunt, a person becomes thin by disease. \ (superl.) Wanting in body or volume; small; feeble; not full. \ (superl.) Slight; flimsy; wanting substance or depth or force; superficial; inadequate; not sufficient for a covering, a thin disguise. \ (adv.) Not thickly or closely; in a seattered state, seed sown thin. \ (v. t.) To make thin (in any of the senses of the adjective). \ (v. i.) To grow or become thin; -- used with some adverbs, as out, away, etc., geological strata thin out, i. e., gradually diminish in thickness until they disappear.
ins thing n. any object \ (n.) Whatever exists, or is conceived to exist, as a separate entity, whether animate or inanimate; any separable or distinguishable object of thought. \ (n.) An inanimate object, in distinction from a living being; any lifeless material. \ (n.) A transaction or occurrence; an event; a deed. \ (n.) A portion or part; something. \ (n.) A diminutive or slighted object; any object viewed as merely existing; -- often used in pity or contempt. \ (n.) Clothes; furniture; appurtenances; luggage; as, to pack or store one's things. \ (n.) Whatever may be possessed or owned; a property; -- distinguished from person. \ (n.) In Scandinavian countries, a legislative or judicial assembly. \ (n.) Alt. of Ting
ins think v. to produce thoughts; to form ideas in the mind; to consider; to believe \ (v. t.) To seem or appear; -- used chiefly in the expressions methinketh or methinks, and methought. \ (v. t.) To employ any of the intellectual powers except that of simple perception through the senses; to exercise the higher intellectual faculties. \ (v. t.) To call anything to mind; to remember; as, I would have sent the books, but I did not think of it. \ (v. t.) To reflect upon any subject; to muse; to meditate; to ponder; to deliberate. \ (v. t.) To form an opinion by reasoning; to judge; to conclude; to believe, I think it will rain to-morrow. \ (v. t.) To purpose; to intend; to design; to mean. \ (v. t.) To presume; to venture. \ (v. t.) To conceive; to imagine. \ (v. t.) To plan or design; to plot; to compass. \ (v. t.) To believe; to esteem. \ (n.) Act of thinking; a thought.
ins third ad. coming after two others \ (a.) Next after the second; coming after two others; -- the ordinal of three; as, the third hour in the day. \ (a.) Constituting or being one of three equal parts into which anything is divided, the third part of a day. \ (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by three; one of three equal parts into which anything is divided. \ (n.) The sixtieth part of a second of time. \ (n.) The third tone of the scale; the mediant. \ (n.) The third part of the estate of a deceased husband, which, by some local laws, the widow is entitled to enjoy during her life.
ins thirteen (a.) One more than twelve; ten and three; as, thirteen ounces or pounds. \ (n.) The number greater by one than twelve; the sum of ten and three; thirteen units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing thirteen units, as 13 or xiii.
ins thirty (a.) Being three times ten; consisting of one more than twenty-nine; twenty and ten; as, the month of June consists of thirty days. \ (n.) The sum of three tens, or twenty and ten; thirty units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol expressing thirty, as 30, or XXX.
ins this pro. of or about the person, place or thing nearby that has been spoken about already \ (pron. & a.) As a demonstrative pronoun, this denotes something that is present or near in place or time, or something just mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned. \ (pron. & a.) As an adjective, this has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun; as, this book; this way to town.
ins those (pron.) The plural of that. See That.
ins though (conj.) Granting, admitting, or supposing that; notwithstanding that; if. \ (adv.) However; nevertheless; notwithstanding; -- used in familiar language, and in the middle or at the end of a sentence.
ins thousand (n.) The number of ten hundred; a collection or sum consisting of ten times one hundred units or objects. \ (n.) Hence, indefinitely, a great number. \ (n.) A symbol representing one thousand units; as, 1,000, M or CI/. \ (a.) Consisting of ten hundred; being ten times one hundred. \ (a.) Hence, consisting of a great number indefinitely.
ins three (a.) One more than two; two and one. \ (n.) The number greater by a unit than two; three units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing three units, as 3 or iii.
ins through prep. in at one end and out at the other; from front to back; from top to bottom; with the help of; by \ (prep.) From end to end of, or from side to side of; from one surface or limit of, to the opposite; into and out of at the opposite, or at another, point; as, to bore through a piece of timber, or through a board; a ball passes through the side of a ship. \ (prep.) Between the sides or walls of; within, to pass through a door; to go through an avenue. \ (prep.) By means of; by the agency of. \ (prep.) Over the whole surface or extent of, to ride through the country; to look through an account. \ (prep.) Among or in the midst of; -- used to denote passage, a fish swims through the water; the light glimmers through a thicket. \ (prep.) From the beginning to the end of; to the end or conclusion of, through life; through the year. \ (adv.) From one end or side to the other, to pierce a thing through. \ (adv.) From beginning to end, to read a letter through. \ (adv.) To the end; to a conclusion; to the ultimate purpose, to carry a project through. \ (a.) Going or extending through; going, extending, or serving from the beginning to the end; thorough; complete, a through line; a through ticket; a through train. Also, admitting of passage through, a through bridge.
ins throw v. to cause to go through the air by a movement of the arm \ (n.) Pain; especially, pain of travail; throe. \ (n.) Time; while; space of time; moment; trice. \ (v. t.) To fling, cast, or hurl with a certain whirling motion of the arm, to throw a ball; -- distinguished from to toss, or to bowl. \ (v. t.) To fling or cast in any manner; to drive to a distance from the hand or from an engine; to propel; to send; as, to throw stones or dust with the hand; a cannon throws a ball; a fire engine throws a stream of water to extinguish flames. \ (v. t.) To drive by violence, a vessel or sailors may be thrown upon a rock. \ (v. t.) To cause to take a strategic position, he threw a detachment of his army across the river. \ (v. t.) To overturn; to prostrate in wrestling, a man throws his antagonist. \ (v. t.) To cast, as dice; to venture at dice. \ (v. t.) To put on hastily; to spread carelessly. \ (v. t.) To divest or strip one's self of; to put off. \ (v. t.) To form or shape roughly on a throwing engine, or potter's wheel, as earthen vessels. \ (v. t.) To give forcible utterance to; to cast; to vent. \ (v. t.) To bring forth; to produce, as young; to bear; -- said especially of rabbits. \ (v. t.) To twist two or more filaments of, as silk, so as to form one thread; to twist together, as singles, in a direction contrary to the twist of the singles themselves; -- sometimes applied to the whole class of operations by which silk is prepared for the weaver. \ (v. i.) To perform the act of throwing or casting; specifically, to cast dice. \ (n.) The act of hurling or flinging; a driving or propelling from the hand or an engine; a cast. \ (n.) A stroke; a blow. \ (n.) The distance which a missile is, or may be, thrown, a stone's throw. \ (n.) A cast of dice; the manner in which dice fall when cast, a good throw. \ (n.) An effort; a violent sally. \ (n.) The extreme movement given to a sliding or vibrating reciprocating piece by a cam, crank, eccentric, or the like; travel; stroke, the throw of a slide valve. Also, frequently, the length of the radius of a crank, or the eccentricity of an eccentric, the throw of the crank of a steam engine is equal to half the stroke of the piston. \ (n.) A potter's wheel or table; a jigger. See 2d Jigger, 2 (a). \ (n.) A turner's lathe; a throwe. \ (n.) The amount of vertical displacement produced by a fault; -- according to the direction it is designated as an upthrow, or a downthrow.
ins ticket (v.) A small piece of paper, cardboard, or the like, serving as a notice, certificate, or distinguishing token of something. \ (v.) A little note or notice. \ (v.) A tradesman's bill or account. \ (v.) A certificate or token of right of admission to a place of assembly, or of passage in a public conveyance; as, a theater ticket; a railroad or steamboat ticket. \ (v.) A label to show the character or price of goods. \ (v.) A certificate or token of a share in a lottery or other scheme for distributing money, goods, or the like. \ (v.) A printed list of candidates to be voted for at an election; a set of nominations by one party for election; a ballot. \ (v. t.) To distinguish by a ticket; to put a ticket on, to ticket goods. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a tickets; to book, to ticket passengers to California.
ins tie v. to join or hold together with some material; n. anything that joins or unites; links or connections ("The two nations have strong trade ties.") \ (v. t.) A knot; a fastening. \ (v. t.) A bond; an obligation, moral or legal; as, the sacred ties of friendship or of duty; the ties of allegiance. \ (v. t.) A knot of hair, as at the back of a wig. \ (v. t.) An equality in numbers, as of votes, scores, etc., which prevents either party from being victorious; equality in any contest, as a race. \ (v. t.) A beam or rod for holding two parts together; in railways, one of the transverse timbers which support the track and keep it in place. \ (v. t.) A line, usually straight, drawn across the stems of notes, or a curved line written over or under the notes, signifying that they are to be slurred, or closely united in the performance, or that two notes of the same pitch are to be sounded as one; a bind; a ligature. \ (v. t.) Low shoes fastened with lacings. \ (v. t.) To fasten with a band or cord and knot; to bind. \ (v. t.) To form, as a knot, by interlacing or complicating a cord; also, to interlace, or form a knot in, to tie a cord to a tree; to knit; to knot. \ (v. t.) To unite firmly; to fasten; to hold. \ (v. t.) To hold or constrain by authority or moral influence, as by knotted cords; to oblige; to constrain; to restrain; to confine. \ (v. t.) To unite, as notes, by a cross line, or by a curved line, or slur, drawn over or under them. \ (v. t.) To make an equal score with, in a contest; to be even with. \ (v. i.) To make a tie; to make an equal score.
ins tiger (n.) A very large and powerful carnivore (Felis tigris) native of Southern Asia and the East Indies. Its back and sides are tawny or rufous yellow, transversely striped with black, the tail is ringed with black, the throat and belly are nearly white. When full grown, it equals or exceeds the lion in size and strength. Called also royal tiger, and Bengal tiger. \ (n.) Fig.: A ferocious, bloodthirsty person. \ (n.) A servant in livery, who rides with his master or mistress. \ (n.) A kind of growl or screech, after cheering; as, three cheers and a tiger. \ (n.) A pneumatic box or pan used in refining sugar.
ins till (n.) A vetch; a tare. \ (n.) A drawer. \ (n.) A tray or drawer in a chest. \ (n.) A money drawer in a shop or store. \ (n.) A deposit of clay, sand, and gravel, without lamination, formed in a glacier valley by means of the waters derived from the melting glaciers; -- sometimes applied to alluvium of an upper river terrace, when not laminated, and appearing as if formed in the same manner. \ (n.) A kind of coarse, obdurate land. \ (v. t.) To; unto; up to; as far as; until; -- now used only in respect to time, but formerly, also, of place, degree, etc., and still so used in Scotland and in parts of England and Ireland; as, I worked till four o'clock; I will wait till next week. \ (conj.) As far as; up to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; that is, to the time specified in the sentence or clause following; until. \ (prep.) To plow and prepare for seed, and to sow, dress, raise crops from, to cultivate, to till the earth, a field, a farm. \ (prep.) To prepare; to get. \ (v. i.) To cultivate land.
ins time n. that which is measured in minutes, hours, days and years; a period that can be identified in hours and minutes and is shown on a clock; a period when an event should or will take place \ (n.) Duration, considered independently of any system of measurement or any employment of terms which designate limited portions thereof. \ (n.) A particular period or part of duration, whether past, present, or future; a point or portion of duration; as, the time was, or has been; the time is, or will be. \ (n.) The period at which any definite event occurred, or person lived; age; period; era, the Spanish Armada was destroyed in the time of Queen Elizabeth; -- often in the plural, ancient times; modern times. \ (n.) The duration of one's life; the hours and days which a person has at his disposal. \ (n.) A proper time; a season; an opportunity. \ (n.) Hour of travail, delivery, or parturition. \ (n.) Performance or occurrence of an action or event, considered with reference to repetition; addition of a number to itself; repetition, to double cloth four times; four times four, or sixteen. \ (n.) The present life; existence in this world as contrasted with immortal life; definite, as contrasted with infinite, duration. \ (n.) Tense. \ (n.) The measured duration of sounds; measure; tempo; rate of movement; rhythmical division, common or triple time; the musician keeps good time. \ (v. t.) To appoint the time for; to bring, begin, or perform at the proper season or time, he timed his appearance rightly. \ (v. t.) To regulate as to time; to accompany, or agree with, in time of movement. \ (v. t.) To ascertain or record the time, duration, or rate of, to time the speed of horses, or hours for workmen. \ (v. t.) To measure, as in music or harmony. \ (v. i.) To keep or beat time; to proceed or move in time. \ (v. i.) To pass time; to delay.
ins tired ad. having less strength because of work or exercise; needing sleep or rest \ (imp. & p. p.) of Tire \ (a.) Weary; fatigued; exhausted.
ins to prep. showing the direction of an action; showing the person or place toward which an action is directed; showing a goal or purpose \ (prep.) The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from. \ (prep.) Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor. \ (prep.) In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor. \ (prep.) As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is direct object or subject, I love to learn, I love learning; to die for one's country is noble, the dying for one's country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8). \ (prep.) In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically. \ (prep.) Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as, they met us to the number of three hundred. \ (prep.) Effect; end; consequence, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state. \ (prep.) Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition, they engaged hand to hand. \ (prep.) Accord; adaptation, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind. \ (prep.) Comparison, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him. \ (prep.) Addition; union; accumulation. \ (prep.) Accompaniment, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano. \ (prep.) Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled.
ins today n. this day
ins toe (n.) One of the terminal members, or digits, of the foot of a man or an animal. \ (n.) The fore part of the hoof or foot of an animal. \ (n.) Anything, or any part, corresponding to the toe of the foot; as, the toe of a boot; the toe of a skate. \ (n.) The journal, or pivot, at the lower end of a revolving shaft or spindle, which rests in a step. \ (n.) A lateral projection at one end, or between the ends, of a piece, as a rod or bolt, by means of which it is moved. \ (n.) A projection from the periphery of a revolving piece, acting as a cam to lift another piece. \ (v. t.) To touch or reach with the toes; to come fully up to, to toe the mark. \ (v. i.) To hold or carry the toes (in a certain way).
ins together ad. in one group; at the same time or place; in cooperation \ (prep.) In company or association with respect to place or time; as, to live together in one house; to live together in the same age; they walked together to the town. \ (prep.) In or into union; into junction, to sew, knit, or fasten two things together; to mix things together. \ (prep.) In concert; with mutual cooperation, the allies made war upon France together.
ins toilet (n.) A covering of linen, silk, or tapestry, spread over a table in a chamber or a dressing room. \ (n.) A dressing table. \ (n.) Act or mode of dressing, or that which is arranged in dressing; attire; dress; as, her toilet is perfect.
ins tomato (n.) The fruit of a plant of the Nightshade family (Lycopersicum esculentun); also, the plant itself. The fruit, which is called also love apple, is usually of a rounded, flattened form, but often irregular in shape. It is of a bright red or yellow color, and is eaten either cooked or uncooked.
ins tomorrow n. the day after today \ (adv.) On the day after the present day; on the next day; on the morrow. \ (n.) The day after the present; the morrow.
ins tongue (n.) an organ situated in the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates and connected with the hyoid arch. \ (n.) The power of articulate utterance; speech. \ (n.) Discourse; fluency of speech or expression. \ (n.) Honorable discourse; eulogy. \ (n.) A language; the whole sum of words used by a particular nation; as, the English tongue. \ (n.) Speech; words or declarations only; -- opposed to thoughts or actions. \ (n.) A people having a distinct language. \ (n.) The lingual ribbon, or odontophore, of a mollusk. \ (n.) The proboscis of a moth or a butterfly. \ (n.) The lingua of an insect. \ (n.) Any small sole. \ (n.) That which is considered as resembing an animal's tongue, in position or form. \ (n.) A projection, or slender appendage or fixture, the tongue of a buckle, or of a balance. \ (n.) A projection on the side, as of a board, which fits into a groove. \ (n.) A point, or long, narrow strip of land, projecting from the mainland into a sea or a lake. \ (n.) The pole of a vehicle; especially, the pole of an ox cart, to the end of which the oxen are yoked. \ (n.) The clapper of a bell. \ (n.) A short piece of rope spliced into the upper part of standing backstays, etc.; also. the upper main piece of a mast composed of several pieces. \ (n.) Same as Reed, n., 5. \ (v. t.) To speak; to utter. \ (v. t.) To chide; to scold. \ (v. t.) To modulate or modify with the tongue, as notes, in playing the flute and some other wind instruments. \ (v. t.) To join means of a tongue and grove, to tongue boards together. \ (v. i.) To talk; to prate. \ (v. i.) To use the tongue in forming the notes, as in playing the flute and some other wind instruments.
ins tonight n. this night \ (adv.) On this present or coming night. \ (adv.) On the last night past. \ (n.) The present or the coming night; the night after the present day.
ins too ad. also; as well as; more than is necessary \ (adv.) Over; more than enough; -- noting excess; as, a thing is too long, too short, or too wide; too high; too many; too much. \ (adv.) Likewise; also; in addition.
ins tooth (n.) One of the hard, bony appendages which are borne on the jaws, or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates, and which usually aid in the prehension and mastication of food. \ (n.) Fig.: Taste; palate. \ (n.) Any projection corresponding to the tooth of an animal, in shape, position, or office; as, the teeth, or cogs, of a cogwheel; a tooth, prong, or tine, of a fork, or the teeth, of a rake, a saw, a file, a card. \ (n.) A projecting member resembling a tenon, but fitting into a mortise that is only sunk, not pierced through. \ (n.) One of several steps, or offsets, in a tusk. See Tusk. \ (n.) An angular or prominence on any edge, a tooth on the scale of a fish, or on a leaf of a plant \ (n.) one of the appendages at the mouth of the capsule of a moss. See Peristome. \ (n.) Any hard calcareous or chitinous organ found in the mouth of various invertebrates and used in feeding or procuring food, the teeth of a mollusk or a starfish. \ (v. t.) To furnish with teeth. \ (v. t.) To indent; to jag, to tooth a saw. \ (v. t.) To lock into each other. See Tooth, n., 4.
ins top n. the upper edge or surface; the highest part; the cover of something \ (n.) A child's toy, commonly in the form of a conoid or pear, made to spin on its point, usually by drawing off a string wound round its surface or stem, the motion being sometimes continued by means of a whip. \ (n.) A plug, or conical block of wood, with longitudital grooves on its surface, in which the strands of the rope slide in the process of twisting. \ (n.) The highest part of anything; the upper end, edge, or extremity; the upper side or surface; summit; apex; vertex; cover; lid; as, the top of a spire; the top of a house; the top of a mountain; the top of the ground. \ (n.) The utmost degree; the acme; the summit. \ (n.) The highest rank; the most honorable position; the utmost attainable place, to be at the top of one's class, or at the top of the school. \ (n.) The chief person; the most prominent one. \ (n.) The crown of the head, or the hair upon it; the head. \ (n.) The head, or upper part, of a plant. \ (n.) A platform surrounding the head of the lower mast and projecting on all sudes. It serves to spead the topmast rigging, thus strengheningthe mast, and also furnishes a convenient standing place for the men aloft. \ (n.) A bundle or ball of slivers of comkbed wool, from which the noils, or dust, have been taken out. \ (n.) Eve; verge; point. \ (n.) The part of a cut gem between the girdle, or circumference, and the table, or flat upper surface. \ (n.) Top-boots. \ (v. i.) To rise aloft; to be eminent; to tower, lofty ridges and topping mountains. \ (v. i.) To predominate, topping passions. \ (v. i.) To excel; to rise above others. \ (v. t.) To cover on the top; to tip; to cap; -- chiefly used in the past participle. \ (v. t.) To rise above; to excel; to outgo; to surpass. \ (v. t.) To rise to the top of; to go over the top of. \ (v. t.) To take off the or upper part of; to crop. \ (v. t.) To perform eminently, or better than before. \ (v. t.) To raise one end of, as a yard, so that that end becomes higher than the other. \ (n.) A stroke on the top of the ball. \ (n.) A forward spin given to the ball by hitting it on or near the top. \ (v. t.) To cover with another dye, to top aniline black with methyl violet to prevent greening and crocking. \ (v. t.) To put a stiffening piece or back on (a saw blade). \ (v. t.) To arrange, as fruit, with the best on top. \ (v. t.) To strike the top of, as a wall, with the hind feet, in jumping, so as to gain new impetus; -- said of a horse. \ (v. t.) To improve (domestic animals, esp. sheep) by crossing certain individuals or breeds with other superior. \ (v. t.) To raise one end of, so that that end becomes higher than the other. \ (v. t.) To cut, break, or otherwise take off the top of (a steel ingot) to remove unsound metal. \ (v. t.) To strike (the ball) above the center; also, to make (as a stroke) by hitting the ball in this way. \ (v. i.) To strike a ball above the center. \ (v. i.) To rise at one end; -- usually with up.
ins touch v. to put the hand or fingers on \ (v. t.) To come in contact with; to hit or strike lightly against; to extend the hand, foot, or the like, so as to reach or rest on. \ (v. t.) To perceive by the sense of feeling. \ (v. t.) To come to; to reach; to attain to. \ (v. t.) To try; to prove, as with a touchstone. \ (v. t.) To relate to; to concern; to affect. \ (v. t.) To handle, speak of, or deal with; to treat of. \ (v. t.) To meddle or interfere with; as, I have not touched the books. \ (v. t.) To affect the senses or the sensibility of; to move; to melt; to soften. \ (v. t.) To mark or delineate with touches; to add a slight stroke to with the pencil or brush. \ (v. t.) To infect; to affect slightly. \ (v. t.) To make an impression on; to have effect upon. \ (v. t.) To strike; to manipulate; to play on, to touch an instrument of music. \ (v. t.) To perform, as a tune; to play. \ (v. t.) To influence by impulse; to impel forcibly. \ (v. t.) To harm, afflict, or distress. \ (v. t.) To affect with insanity, especially in a slight degree; to make partially insane; -- rarely used except in the past participle. \ (v. t.) To be tangent to. See Tangent, a. \ (a.) To lay a hand upon for curing disease. \ (v. i.) To be in contact; to be in a state of junction, so that no space is between, two spheres touch only at points. \ (v. i.) To fasten; to take effect; to make impression. \ (v. i.) To treat anything in discourse, especially in a slight or casual manner; -- often with on or upon. \ (v. i.) To be brought, as a sail, so close to the wind that its weather leech shakes. \ (v.) The act of touching, or the state of being touched; contact. \ (v.) The sense by which pressure or traction exerted on the skin is recognized; the sense by which the properties of bodies are determined by contact; the tactile sense. See Tactile sense, under Tactile. \ (v.) Act or power of exciting emotion. \ (v.) An emotion or affection. \ (v.) Personal reference or application. \ (v.) A stroke, a touch of raillery; a satiric touch; hence, animadversion; censure; reproof. \ (v.) A single stroke on a drawing or a picture. \ (v.) Feature; lineament; trait. \ (v.) The act of the hand on a musical instrument; bence, in the plural, musical notes. \ (v.) A small quantity intermixed; a little; a dash. \ (v.) A hint; a suggestion; slight notice. \ (v.) A slight and brief essay. \ (v.) A touchstone, stone of the sort used for touchstone. \ (v.) Hence, examination or trial by some decisive standard; test; proof; tried quality. \ (v.) The particular or characteristic mode of action, or the resistance of the keys of an instrument to the fingers, a heavy touch, or a light touch; also, the manner of touching, striking, or pressing the keys of a piano, a legato touch; a staccato touch. \ (v.) The broadest part of a plank worked top and but (see Top and but, under Top, n.), or of one worked anchor-stock fashion (that is, tapered from the middle to both ends), the angles of the stern timbers at the counters. \ (n.) A boys' game; tag.
ins toward prep. in the direction of; leading to \ (prep.) Alt. of Towards \ (adv.) Alt. of Towards \ (prep.) Approaching; coming near. \ (prep.) Readly to do or learn; compliant with duty; not froward; apt; docile; tractable; as, a toward youth. \ (prep.) Ready to act; forward; bold; valiant.
ins towel (n.) A cloth used for wiping, especially one used for drying anything wet, as the person after a bath. \ (v. t.) To beat with a stick.
ins tower (n.) A mass of building standing alone and insulated, usually higher than its diameter, but when of great size not always of that proportion. \ (n.) A projection from a line of wall, as a fortification, for purposes of defense, as a flanker, either or the same height as the curtain wall or higher. \ (n.) A structure appended to a larger edifice for a special purpose, as for a belfry, and then usually high in proportion to its width and to the height of the rest of the edifice; as, a church tower. \ (n.) A citadel; a fortress; hence, a defense. \ (n.) A headdress of a high or towerlike form, fashionable about the end of the seventeenth century and until 1715; also, any high headdress. \ (n.) High flight; elevation. \ (v. i.) To rise and overtop other objects; to be lofty or very high, to soar. \ (v. t.) To soar into.
ins town n. a center where people live, larger than a village but not as large as a city \ (adv. & prep.) Formerly: (a) An inclosure which surrounded the mere homestead or dwelling of the lord of the manor. [Obs.] (b) The whole of the land which constituted the domain. [Obs.] (c) A collection of houses inclosed by fences or walls. \ (adv. & prep.) Any number or collection of houses to which belongs a regular market, and which is not a city or the see of a bishop. \ (adv. & prep.) Any collection of houses larger than a village, and not incorporated as a city; also, loosely, any large, closely populated place, whether incorporated or not, in distinction from the country, or from rural communities. \ (adv. & prep.) The body of inhabitants resident in a town; as, the town voted to send two representatives to the legislature; the town voted to lay a tax for repairing the highways. \ (adv. & prep.) A township; the whole territory within certain limits, less than those of a country. \ (adv. & prep.) The court end of London;-- commonly with the. \ (adv. & prep.) The metropolis or its inhabitants, in winter the gentleman lives in town; in summer, in the country. \ (adv. & prep.) A farm or farmstead, a court or farmyard.
ins toy (v. t.) A plaything for children; a bawble. \ (v. t.) A thing for amusement, but of no real value; an article of trade of little value; a trifle. \ (v. t.) A wild fancy; an odd conceit; idle sport; folly; trifling opinion. \ (v. t.) Amorous dalliance; play; sport; pastime. \ (v. t.) An old story; a silly tale. \ (v. t.) A headdress of linen or woolen, that hangs down over the shoulders, worn by old women of the lower classes; -- called also toy mutch. \ (v. i.) To dally amorously; to trifle; to play. \ (v. t.) To treat foolishly.
ins train v. to teach or learn how to do something; to prepare for an activity; n. an engine and the cars connected to it that move along a railroad \ (v. t.) To draw along; to trail; to drag. \ (v. t.) To draw by persuasion, artifice, or the like; to attract by stratagem; to entice; to allure. \ (v. t.) To teach and form by practice; to educate; to exercise; to discipline; as, to train the militia to the manual exercise; to train soldiers to the use of arms. \ (v. t.) To break, tame, and accustom to draw, as oxen. \ (v. t.) To lead or direct, and form to a wall or espalier; to form to a proper shape, by bending, lopping, or pruning, to train young trees. \ (v. t.) To trace, as a lode or any mineral appearance, to its head. \ (v. i.) To be drilled in military exercises; to do duty in a military company. \ (v. i.) To prepare by exercise, diet, instruction, etc., for any physical contest, to train for a boat race. \ (v.) That which draws along; especially, persuasion, or enticement; allurement. \ (v.) Hence, something tied to a lure to entice a hawk; also, a trap for an animal; a snare. \ (v.) That which is drawn along in the rear of, or after, something; that which is in the hinder part or rear. \ (v.) That part of a gown which trails behind the wearer. \ (v.) The after part of a gun carriage; the trail. \ (v.) The tail of a bird. \ (v.) A number of followers; a body of attendants; a retinue; a suite. \ (v.) A consecution or succession of connected things; a series. \ (v.) Regular method; process; course; order, things now in a train for settlement. \ (v.) The number of beats of a watch in any certain time. \ (v.) A line of gunpowder laid to lead fire to a charge, mine, or the like. \ (v.) A connected line of cars or carriages on a railroad. \ (v.) A heavy, long sleigh used in Canada for the transportation of merchandise, wood, and the like. \ (v.) A roll train, a 12-inch train. \ (n.) A heavy long sleigh used in Canada for the transportation of merchandise, and the like. \ (n.) The aggregation of men, animals, and vehicles which accompany an army or one of its subdivisions, and transport its baggage, ammunition, supplies, and reserve materials of all kinds.
ins travel v. to go from one place to another, usually for a long distance \ (v. i.) To labor; to travail. \ (v. i.) To go or march on foot; to walk; as, to travel over the city, or through the streets. \ (v. i.) To pass by riding, or in any manner, to a distant place, or to many places; to journey, a man travels for his health; he is traveling in California. \ (v. i.) To pass; to go; to move. \ (v. t.) To journey over; to traverse, to travel the continent. \ (v. t.) To force to journey. \ (n.) The act of traveling, or journeying from place to place; a journey. \ (n.) An account, by a traveler, of occurrences and observations during a journey, a book of travels; -- often used as the title of a book, Travels in Italy. \ (n.) The length of stroke of a reciprocating piece, the travel of a slide valve. \ (n.) Labor; parturition; travail.
ins tree n. a very tall plant that is mostly wood, except for its leaves \ (n.) Any perennial woody plant of considerable size (usually over twenty feet high) and growing with a single trunk. \ (n.) Something constructed in the form of, or considered as resembling, a tree, consisting of a stem, or stock, and branches; as, a genealogical tree. \ (n.) A piece of timber, or something commonly made of timber; -- used in composition, as in axletree, boottree, chesstree, crosstree, whiffletree, and the like. \ (n.) A cross or gallows; as Tyburn tree. \ (n.) Wood; timber. \ (n.) A mass of crystals, aggregated in arborescent forms, obtained by precipitation of a metal from solution. See Lead tree, under Lead. \ (v. t.) To drive to a tree; to cause to ascend a tree, a dog trees a squirrel. \ (v. t.) To place upon a tree; to fit with a tree; to stretch upon a tree, to tree a boot. See Tree, n., 3.
ins trip n. a movement from one place to another, usually a long distance \ (n. i.) To move with light, quick steps; to walk or move lightly; to skip; to move the feet nimbly; -- sometimes followed by it. See It, 5. \ (n. i.) To make a brief journey or pleasure excursion; as, to trip to Europe. \ (n. i.) To take a quick step, as when in danger of losing one's balance; hence, to make a false; to catch the foot; to lose footing; to stumble. \ (n. i.) Fig.: To be guilty of a misstep; to commit an offense against morality, propriety, or rule; to err; to mistake; to fail. \ (v. t.) To cause to stumble, or take a false step; to cause to lose the footing, by striking the feet from under; to cause to fall; to throw off the balance; to supplant; -- often followed by up, to trip up a man in wrestling. \ (v. t.) Fig.: To overthrow by depriving of support; to put an obstacle in the way of; to obstruct; to cause to fail. \ (v. t.) To detect in a misstep; to catch; to convict. \ (v. t.) To raise (an anchor) from the bottom, by its cable or buoy rope, so that it hangs free. \ (v. t.) To pull (a yard) into a perpendicular position for lowering it. \ (v. t.) To release, let fall, or see free, as a weight or compressed spring, as by removing a latch or detent. \ (n.) A quick, light step; a lively movement of the feet; a skip. \ (n.) A brief or rapid journey; an excursion or jaunt. \ (n.) A false step; a stumble; a misstep; a loss of footing or balance. Fig.: An error; a failure; a mistake. \ (n.) A small piece; a morsel; a bit. \ (n.) A stroke, or catch, by which a wrestler causes his antagonist to lose footing. \ (n.) A single board, or tack, in plying, or beating, to windward. \ (n.) A herd or flock, as of sheep, goats, etc. \ (n.) A troop of men; a host. \ (n.) A flock of widgeons.
ins trouble n. that which causes concern, fear, difficulty or problems \ (v. t.) To put into confused motion; to disturb; to agitate. \ (v. t.) To disturb; to perplex; to afflict; to distress; to grieve; to fret; to annoy; to vex. \ (v. t.) To give occasion for labor to; -- used in polite phraseology; as, I will not trouble you to deliver the letter. \ (a.) Troubled; dark; gloomy. \ (v. t.) The state of being troubled; disturbance; agitation; uneasiness; vexation; calamity. \ (v. t.) That which gives disturbance, annoyance, or vexation; that which afflicts. \ (v. t.) A fault or interruption in a stratum.
ins true ad. correct; not false \ (n.) Conformable to fact; in accordance with the actual state of things; correct; not false, erroneous, inaccurate, or the like; as, a true relation or narration; a true history; a declaration is true when it states the facts. \ (n.) Right to precision; conformable to a rule or pattern; exact; accurate, a true copy; a true likeness of the original. \ (n.) Steady in adhering to friends, to promises, to a prince; unwavering; faithful; loyal, fickle, or perfidious, a true friend; a wife true to her husband; an officer true to his charge. \ (n.) Actual; not counterfeit, adulterated, or pretended; genuine; pure; real, true balsam; true love of country; a true Christian. \ (adv.) In accordance with truth; truly. \ (a.) Genuine; not deviating from the essential characters of a class, a lizard is a true reptile; a whale is a true, but not a typical, mammal.
ins try v. to make an effort; to take court action against a person to decide if he or she is guilty or innocent of a crime \ (v. t.) To divide or separate, as one sort from another; to winnow; to sift; to pick out; -- frequently followed by out; as, to try out the wild corn from the good. \ (v. t.) To purify or refine, as metals; to melt out, and procure in a pure state, as oil, tallow, lard, etc. \ (v. t.) To prove by experiment; to apply a test to, for the purpose of determining the quality; to examine; to prove; to test, to try weights or measures by a standard; to try a man's opinions. \ (v. t.) To subject to severe trial; to put to the test; to cause suffering or trouble to. \ (v. t.) To experiment with; to test by use, to try a remedy for disease; to try a horse. \ (v. t.) To strain; to subject to excessive tests, the light tries his eyes; repeated disappointments try one's patience. \ (v. t.) To examine or investigate judicially; to examine by witnesses or other judicial evidence and the principles of law, to try a cause, or a criminal. \ (v. t.) To settle; to decide; to determine; specifically, to decide by an appeal to arms, to try rival claims by a duel; to try conclusions. \ (v. t.) To experience; to have or gain knowledge of by experience. \ (v. t.) To essay; to attempt; to endeavor. \ (v. i.) To exert strength; to endeavor; to make an effort or an attempt, you must try hard if you wish to learn. \ (v. i.) To do; to fare, how do you try! \ (n.) A screen, or sieve, for grain. \ (n.) Act of trying; attempt; experiment; trial. \ (v. t.) Refined; select; excellent; choice. \ (n.) In Rugby and Northern Union football, a score (counting three points) made by grounding the ball on or behind the opponent's goal line; -- so called because it entitles the side making it to a place kick for a goal (counting two points more if successful).
ins tunnel (n. .) A vessel with a broad mouth at one end, a pipe or tube at the other, for conveying liquor, fluids, etc., into casks, bottles, or other vessels; a funnel. \ (n. .) The opening of a chimney for the passage of smoke; a flue; a funnel. \ (n. .) An artificial passage or archway for conducting canals or railroads under elevated ground, for the formation of roads under rivers or canals, and the construction of sewers, drains, and the like. \ (n. .) A level passage driven across the measures, or at right angles to veins which it is desired to reach; -- distinguished from the drift, or gangway, which is led along the vein when reached by the tunnel. \ (v. t.) To form into a tunnel, or funnel, or to form like a tunnel; as, to tunnel fibrous plants into nests. \ (v. t.) To catch in a tunnel net. \ (v. t.) To make an opening, or a passageway, through or under, to tunnel a mountain; to tunnel a river.
ins turn v. to change direction; to move into a different position; to change color, form or shape
ins twelve (a.) One more that eleven; two and ten; twice six; a dozen. \ (n.) The number next following eleven; the sum of ten and two, or of twice six; twelve units or objects; a dozen. \ (n.) A symbol representing twelve units, as 12, or xii.
ins twenty (a.) One more that nineteen; twice; as, twenty men. \ (a.) An indefinite number more or less that twenty. \ (n.) The number next following nineteen; the sum of twelve and eight, or twice ten; twenty units or objects; a score. \ (n.) A symbol representing twenty units, as 20, or xx.
ins two (n.) One and one; twice one. \ (n.) The sum of one and one; the number next greater than one, and next less than three; two units or objects. \ (n.) A symbol representing two units, as 2, II., or ii.
ins type (n.) The mark or impression of something; stamp; impressed sign; emblem. \ (n.) Form or character impressed; style; semblance. \ (n.) A figure or representation of something to come; a token; a sign; a symbol; -- correlative to antitype. \ (n.) That which possesses or exemplifies characteristic qualities; the representative. \ (n.) A general form or structure common to a number of individuals; hence, the ideal representation of a species, genus, or other group, combining the essential characteristics; an animal or plant possessing or exemplifying the essential characteristics of a species, or other group. Also, a group or division of animals having a certain typical or characteristic structure of body maintained within the group. \ (n.) The original object, or class of objects, scene, face, or conception, which becomes the subject of a copy; esp., the design on the face of a medal or a coin. \ (n.) A simple compound, used as a mode or pattern to which other compounds are conveniently regarded as being related, and from which they may be actually or theoretically derived. \ (n.) A raised letter, figure, accent, or other character, cast in metal or cut in wood, used in printing. \ (n.) Such letters or characters, in general, or the whole quantity of them used in printing, spoken of collectively; any number or mass of such letters or characters, however disposed. \ (v. t.) To represent by a type, model, or symbol beforehand; to prefigure. \ (v. t.) To furnish an expression or copy of; to represent; to typify.
ins umbrella (n.) A shade, screen, or guard, carried in the hand for sheltering the person from the rays of the sun, or from rain or snow. It is formed of silk, cotton, or other fabric, extended on strips of whalebone, steel, or other elastic material, inserted, or fastened to, a rod or stick by means of pivots or hinges, in such a way as to allow of being opened and closed with ease. See Parasol. \ (n.) The umbrellalike disk, or swimming bell, of a jellyfish. \ (n.) Any marine tectibranchiate gastropod of the genus Umbrella, having an umbrella-shaped shell; -- called also umbrella shell.
ins uncle (n.) The brother of one's father or mother; also applied to an aunt's husband; -- the correlative of aunt in sex, and of nephew and niece in relationship. \ (n.) A pawnbroker. \ (n.) An eldery man; -- used chiefly as a kindly or familiar appellation, esp. (Southern U. S.) for a worthy old negro; as, "Uncle Remus."
ins under prep. below; below the surface of; less than; as called for by a law, agreement or system ("The river flows under the bridge." "Such action is not permitted under the law.") \ (prep.) Below or lower, in place or position, with the idea of being covered; lower than; beneath; -- opposed to over; as, he stood under a tree; the carriage is under cover; a cellar extends under the whole house. \ (prep.) Denoting relation to some thing or person that is superior, weighs upon, oppresses, bows down, governs, directs, influences powerfully, or the like, in a relation of subjection, subordination, obligation, liability, to travel under a heavy load; to live under extreme oppression; to have fortitude under the evils of life; to have patience under pain, or under misfortunes; to behave like a Christian under reproaches and injuries; under the pains and penalties of the law; the condition under which one enters upon an office; under the necessity of obeying the laws; under vows of chastity. \ (prep.) Denoting relation to something that exceeds in rank or degree, in number, size, weight, age; in a relation of the less to the greater, of inferiority, or of falling short. \ (prep.) Denoting relation to something that comprehends or includes, that represents or designates, that furnishes a cover, pretext, pretense, he betrayed him under the guise of friendship; Morpheus is represented under the figure of a boy asleep. \ (prep.) Less specifically, denoting the relation of being subject, of undergoing regard, treatment, a bill under discussion. \ (adv.) In a lower, subject, or subordinate condition; in subjection; -- used chiefly in a few idiomatic phrases, to bring under, to reduce to subjection; to subdue; to keep under, to keep in subjection; to control; to go under, to be unsuccessful; to fail. \ (a.) Lower in position, intensity, rank, or degree; subordinate; -- generally in composition with a noun, and written with or without the hyphen, an undercurrent; undertone; underdose; under-garment; underofficer; undersheriff.
ins understand v. to know what is meant; to have knowledge of \ (v. t.) To have just and adequate ideas of; to apprehended the meaning or intention of; to have knowledge of; to comprehend; to know; as, to understand a problem in Euclid; to understand a proposition or a declaration; the court understands the advocate or his argument; to understand the sacred oracles; to understand a nod or a wink. \ (v. t.) To be apprised, or have information, of; to learn; to be informed of; to hear, I understand that Congress has passed the bill. \ (v. t.) To recognize or hold as being or signifying; to suppose to mean; to interpret; to explain. \ (v. t.) To mean without expressing; to imply tacitly; to take for granted; to assume. \ (v. t.) To stand under; to support. \ (v. i.) To have the use of the intellectual faculties; to be an intelligent being. \ (v. i.) To be informed; to have or receive knowledge.
ins until conj. up to a time; before \ (prep.) To; unto; towards; -- used of material objects. \ (prep.) To; up to; till; before; -- used of time; as, he staid until evening; he will not come back until the end of the month. \ (conj.) As far as; to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; till. See Till, conj.
ins up ad. to, in or at a higher position or value \ (adv.) Aloft; on high; in a direction contrary to that of gravity; toward or in a higher place or position; above; -- the opposite of down. \ (adv.) From a lower to a higher position, literally or figuratively; as, from a recumbent or sitting position; from the mouth, toward the source, of a river; from a dependent or inferior condition; from concealment; from younger age; from a quiet state, or the like; -- used with verbs of motion expressed or implied. \ (adv.) In a higher place or position; in the state of having arisen; in an upright, or nearly upright, position; standing; mounted on a horse; in a condition of elevation, prominence, advance, proficiency, excitement, insurrection; -- used with verbs of rest, situation, condition, and the like, to be up on a hill; the lid of the box was up; prices are up. \ (adv.) To or in a position of equal advance or equality; not short of, back of, less advanced than, away from; -- usually followed by to or with, to be up to the chin in water; to come up with one's companions; to come up with the enemy; to live up to engagements. \ (adv.) To or in a state of completion; completely; wholly; quite, in the phrases to eat up; to drink up; to burn up; to sum up; etc.; to shut up the eyes or the mouth; to sew up a rent. \ (adv.) Aside, so as not to be in use, to lay up riches; put up your weapons. \ (prep.) From a lower to a higher place on, upon, or along; at a higher situation upon; at the top of. \ (prep.) From the coast towards the interior of, as a country; from the mouth towards the source of, as a stream, to journey up the country; to sail up the Hudson. \ (prep.) Upon. \ (n.) The state of being up or above; a state of elevation, prosperity; -- rarely occurring except in the phrase ups and downs. \ (a.) Inclining up; tending or going up; upward, an up look; an up grade; the up train.
ins upon (prep.) On; -- used in all the senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable.
ins us pro. the form of the word "we" used after a preposition ("He said he would write to us.") or used as an object of a verb ("They saw us yesterday.") \ (pl. ) of I \ (pron.) The persons speaking, regarded as an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We.
ins use v. to employ for a purpose; to put into action \ (v. t.) The act of employing anything, or of applying it to one's service; the state of being so employed or applied; application; employment; conversion to some purpose; as, the use of a pen in writing; his machines are in general use. \ (v. t.) Occasion or need to employ; necessity, to have no further use for a book. \ (v. t.) Yielding of service; advantage derived; capability of being used; usefulness; utility. \ (v. t.) Continued or repeated practice; customary employment; usage; custom; manner; habit. \ (v. t.) Common occurrence; ordinary experience. \ (v. t.) The special form of ritual adopted for use in any diocese, the Sarum, or Canterbury, use; the Hereford use; the York use; the Roman use; etc. \ (v. t.) The premium paid for the possession and employment of borrowed money; interest; usury. \ (v. t.) The benefit or profit of lands and tenements. Use imports a trust and confidence reposed in a man for the holding of lands. He to whose use or benefit the trust is intended shall enjoy the profits. An estate is granted and limited to A for the use of B. \ (v. t.) A stab of iron welded to the side of a forging, as a shaft, near the end, and afterward drawn down, by hammering, so as to lengthen the forging. \ (v. t.) To make use of; to convert to one's service; to avail one's self of; to employ; to put a purpose, to use a plow; to use a chair; to use time; to use flour for food; to use water for irrigation. \ (v. t.) To behave toward; to act with regard to; to treat, to use a beast cruelly. \ (v. t.) To practice customarily; to make a practice of, to use diligence in business. \ (v. t.) To accustom; to habituate; to render familiar by practice; to inure; -- employed chiefly in the passive participle, men used to cold and hunger; soldiers used to hardships and danger. \ (v. i.) To be wont or accustomed; to be in the habit or practice, he used to ride daily; -- now disused in the present tense, perhaps because of the similarity in sound, between "use to," and "used to." \ (v. i.) To be accustomed to go; to frequent; to inhabit; to dwell; -- sometimes followed by of.
ins useful (a.) Full of use, advantage, or profit; producing, or having power to produce, good; serviceable for any end or object; helpful toward advancing any purpose; beneficial; profitable; advantageous; as, vessels and instruments useful in a family; books useful for improvement; useful knowledge; useful arts.
ins usual ad. as is normal or common; as is most often done, seen or heard \ (n.) Such as is in common use; such as occurs in ordinary practice, or in the ordinary course of events; customary; ordinary; habitual; common.
ins vacation (n.) The act of vacating; a making void or of no force; as, the vacation of an office or a charter. \ (n.) Intermission of a stated employment, procedure, or office; a period of intermission; rest; leisure. \ (n.) Intermission of judicial proceedings; the space of time between the end of one term and the beginning of the next; nonterm; recess. \ (n.) The intermission of the regular studies and exercises of an educational institution between terms; holidays, the spring vacation. \ (n.) The time when an office is vacant; esp. (Eccl.), the time when a see, or other spiritual dignity, is vacant.
ins vegetable n. a plant grown for food \ (v.) Of or pertaining to plants; having the nature of, or produced by, plants; as, a vegetable nature; vegetable growths, juices, etc. \ (v.) Consisting of, or comprising, the vegetable kingdom. \ (v.) Plants having distinct flowers and true seeds. \ (v.) Plants without true flowers, and reproduced by minute spores of various kinds, or by simple cell division. \ (n.) A plant. See Plant. \ (n.) A plant used or cultivated for food for man or domestic animals, as the cabbage, turnip, potato, bean, dandelion, etc.; also, the edible part of such a plant, as prepared for market or the table.
ins very ad. extremely ("He was very late.") \ (v. t.) True; real; actual; veritable. \ (adv.) In a high degree; to no small extent; exceedingly; excessively; extremely; as, a very great mountain; a very bright sum; a very cold day; the river flows very rapidly; he was very much hurt. \ Alt. of night signals
ins village n. a very small town \ (n.) A small assemblage of houses in the country, less than a town or city.
ins violin (n.) A small instrument with four strings, played with a bow; a fiddle.
ins visit v. to go to or come to a place for a short time for friendly or business reasons \ (v. t.) To go or come to see, as for the purpose of friendship, business, curiosity, etc.; to attend; to call upon; as, the physician visits his patient. \ (v. t.) To go or come to see for inspection, examination, correction of abuses; to examine, to inspect, a bishop visits his diocese; a superintendent visits persons or works under his charge. \ (v. t.) To come to for the purpose of chastising, rewarding, comforting; to come upon with reward or retribution; to appear before or judge, to visit in mercy; to visit one in wrath. \ (v. i.) To make a visit or visits; to maintain visiting relations; to practice calling on others. \ (v. t.) The act of visiting, or going to see a person or thing; a brief stay of business, friendship, ceremony, or the like, usually longer than a call, a visit of civility or respect; a visit to Saratoga; the visit of a physician. \ (v. t.) The act of going to view or inspect; an official or formal inspection; visitation, the visit of a trustee or inspector.
ins visitor One who visits; one who comes or goes to see another, as in civility or friendship. \ A superior, or a person lawfully appointed for the purpose, who makes formal visits of inspection to a corporation or an institution. See Visit, v. t., 2, and Visitation, n., 2.
ins voice n. the sound made by creatures, especially humans, for speaking \ (n.) Sound uttered by the mouth, especially that uttered by human beings in speech or song; sound thus uttered considered as possessing some special quality or character; as, the human voice; a pleasant voice; a low voice. \ (n.) Sound of the kind or quality heard in speech or song in the consonants b, v, d, etc., and in the vowels; sonant, or intonated, utterance; tone; -- distinguished from mere breath sound as heard in f, s, sh, and also whisper. \ (n.) The tone or sound emitted by anything. \ (n.) The faculty or power of utterance, to cultivate the voice. \ (n.) Language; words; speech; expression; signification of feeling or opinion. \ (n.) Opinion or choice expressed; judgment; a vote. \ (n.) Command; precept; -- now chiefly used in scriptural language. \ (n.) One who speaks; a speaker. \ (n.) A particular mode of inflecting or conjugating verbs, or a particular form of a verb, by means of which is indicated the relation of the subject of the verb to the action which the verb expresses. \ (v. t.) To give utterance or expression to; to utter; to publish; to announce; to divulge, to voice the sentiments of the nation. \ (v. t.) To utter with sonant or vocal tone; to pronounce with a narrowed glottis and rapid vibrations of the vocal cords; to speak above a whisper. \ (v. t.) To fit for producing the proper sounds; to regulate the tone of, to voice the pipes of an organ. \ (v. t.) To vote; to elect; to appoint. \ (v. i.) To clamor; to cry out.
ins wait v. to delay acting; to postpone \ (v. i.) To watch; to observe; to take notice. \ (v. i.) To stay or rest in expectation; to stop or remain stationary till the arrival of some person or event; to rest in patience; to stay; not to depart. \ (v. t.) To stay for; to rest or remain stationary in expectation of; to await; as, to wait orders. \ (v. t.) To attend as a consequence; to follow upon; to accompany; to await. \ (v. t.) To attend on; especially, to attend with ceremony or respect. \ (v. t.) To cause to wait; to defer; to postpone; -- said of a meal, to wait dinner. \ (v. i.) The act of waiting; a delay; a halt. \ (v. i.) Ambush. \ (v. i.) One who watches; a watchman. \ (v. i.) Hautboys, or oboes, played by town musicians; not used in the singular. \ (v. i.) Musicians who sing or play at night or in the early morning, especially at Christmas time; serenaders; musical watchmen.
ins wake (n.) The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any track; as, the wake of an army. \ (v. i.) To be or to continue awake; to watch; not to sleep. \ (v. i.) To sit up late festive purposes; to hold a night revel. \ (v. i.) To be excited or roused from sleep; to awake; to be awakened; to cease to sleep; -- often with up. \ (v. i.) To be exited or roused up; to be stirred up from a dormant, torpid, or inactive state; to be active. \ (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to awake. \ (v. t.) To put in motion or action; to arouse; to excite. \ (v. t.) To bring to life again, as if from the sleep of death; to reanimate; to revive. \ (v. t.) To watch, or sit up with, at night, as a dead body. \ (n.) The act of waking, or being awaked; also, the state of being awake. \ (n.) The state of forbearing sleep, especially for solemn or festive purposes; a vigil. \ (n.) An annual parish festival formerly held in commemoration of the dedication of a church. Originally, prayers were said on the evening preceding, and hymns were sung during the night, in the church; subsequently, these vigils were discontinued, and the day itself, often with succeeding days, was occupied in rural pastimes and exercises, attended by eating and drinking, often to excess. \ (n.) The sitting up of persons with a dead body, often attended with a degree of festivity, chiefly among the Irish.
ins walk v. to move by putting one foot in front of the other \ (v. i.) To move along on foot; to advance by steps; to go on at a moderate pace; specifically, of two-legged creatures, to proceed at a slower or faster rate, but without running, or lifting one foot entirely before the other touches the ground. \ (v. i.) To move or go on the feet for exercise or amusement; to take one's exercise; to ramble. \ (v. i.) To be stirring; to be abroad; to go restlessly about; -- said of things or persons expected to remain quiet, as a sleeping person, or the spirit of a dead person; to go about as a somnambulist or a specter. \ (v. i.) To be in motion; to act; to move; to wag. \ (v. i.) To behave; to pursue a course of life; to conduct one's self. \ (v. i.) To move off; to depart. \ (v. t.) To pass through, over, or upon; to traverse; to perambulate; as, to walk the streets. \ (v. t.) To cause to walk; to lead, drive, or ride with a slow pace; as to walk one's horses. \ (v. t.) To subject, as cloth or yarn, to the fulling process; to full. \ (n.) The act of walking, or moving on the feet with a slow pace; advance without running or leaping. \ (n.) The act of walking for recreation or exercise, a morning walk; an evening walk. \ (n.) Manner of walking; gait; step, we often know a person at a distance by his walk. \ (n.) That in or through which one walks; place or distance walked over; a place for walking; a path or avenue prepared for foot passengers, or for taking air and exercise; way; road; hence, a place or region in which animals may graze; place of wandering; range, a sheep walk. \ (n.) A frequented track; habitual place of action; sphere, the walk of the historian. \ (n.) Conduct; course of action; behavior. \ (n.) The route or district regularly served by a vender, a milkman's walk. \ (n.) In coffee, coconut, and other plantations, the space between them. \ (n.) A place for keeping and training puppies. \ (n.) An inclosed area of some extent to which a gamecock is confined to prepare him for fighting. \ (v. t.) To put or keep (a puppy) in a walk; to train (puppies) in a walk. \ (v. t.) To move in a manner likened to walking.
ins wall n. the side of a room or building formed by wood, stone or other material; a structure sometimes used to separate areas of land \ (n.) A kind of knot often used at the end of a rope; a wall knot; a wale. \ (n.) A work or structure of stone, brick, or other materials, raised to some height, and intended for defense or security, solid and permanent inclosing fence, as around a field, a park, a town, etc., also, one of the upright inclosing parts of a building or a room. \ (n.) A defense; a rampart; a means of protection; in the plural, fortifications, in general; works for defense. \ (n.) An inclosing part of a receptacle or vessel; as, the walls of a steam-engine cylinder. \ (n.) The side of a level or drift. \ (n.) The country rock bounding a vein laterally. \ (v. t.) To inclose with a wall, or as with a wall. \ (v. t.) To defend by walls, or as if by walls; to fortify. \ (v. t.) To close or fill with a wall, as a doorway.
ins want v. to desire; to wish for; to need \ (v. i.) The state of not having; the condition of being without anything; absence or scarcity of what is needed or desired; deficiency; lack; as, a want of power or knowledge for any purpose; want of food and clothing. \ (v. i.) Specifically, absence or lack of necessaries; destitution; poverty; penury; indigence; need. \ (v. i.) That which is needed or desired; a thing of which the loss is felt; what is not possessed, and is necessary for use or pleasure. \ (v. i.) A depression in coal strata, hollowed out before the subsequent deposition took place. \ (v. t.) To be without; to be destitute of, or deficient in; not to have; to lack, to want knowledge; to want judgment; to want learning; to want food and clothing. \ (v. t.) To have occasion for, as useful, proper, or requisite; to require; to need, in winter we want a fire; in summer we want cooling breezes. \ (v. t.) To feel need of; to wish or long for; to desire; to crave. \ (v. i.) To be absent; to be deficient or lacking; to fail; not to be sufficient; to fall or come short; -- often used impersonally with of, it wants ten minutes of four. \ (v. i.) To be in a state of destitution; to be needy; to lack.
ins war n. fighting between nations, or groups in a nation, using weapons \ (a.) Ware; aware. \ (n.) A contest between nations or states, carried on by force, whether for defence, for revenging insults and redressing wrongs, for the extension of commerce, for the acquisition of territory, for obtaining and establishing the superiority and dominion of one over the other, or for any other purpose; armed conflict of sovereign powers; declared and open hostilities. \ (n.) A condition of belligerency to be maintained by physical force. In this sense, levying war against the sovereign authority is treason. \ (n.) Instruments of war. \ (n.) Forces; army. \ (n.) The profession of arms; the art of war. \ (n.) a state of opposition or contest; an act of opposition; an inimical contest, act, or action; enmity; hostility. \ (v. i.) To make war; to invade or attack a state or nation with force of arms; to carry on hostilities; to be in a state by violence. \ (v. i.) To contend; to strive violently; to fight. \ (v. t.) To make war upon; to fight. \ (v. t.) To carry on, as a contest; to wage.
ins warm ad. almost hot; having or feeling some heat \ (superl.) Having heat in a moderate degree; not cold as, warm milk. \ (superl.) Having a sensation of heat, esp. of gentle heat; glowing. \ (superl.) Subject to heat; having prevalence of heat, or little or no cold weather; as, the warm climate of Egypt. \ (superl.) Fig.: Not cool, indifferent, lukewarm, or the like, in spirit or temper; zealous; ardent; fervent; excited; sprightly; irritable; excitable. \ (superl.) Violent; vehement; furious; passionate, a warm contest; a warm debate. \ (superl.) Being well off as to property, or in good circumstances; forehanded; rich. \ (superl.) In children's games, being near the object sought for; hence, being close to the discovery of some person, thing, or fact concealed. \ (superl.) Having yellow or red for a basis, or in their composition; -- said of colors, and opposed to cold which is of blue and its compounds. \ (a.) To communicate a moderate degree of heat to; to render warm; to supply or furnish heat to, a stove warms an apartment. \ (a.) To make engaged or earnest; to interest; to engage; to excite ardor or zeal; to enliven. \ (v. i.) To become warm, or moderately heated, the earth soon warms in a clear day summer. \ (v. i.) To become ardent or animated, the speake/ warms as he proceeds. \ (n.) The act of warming, or the state of being warmed; a warming; a heating.
ins was (imp.) of Be \ (v.) The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was.
ins wash v. to make clean, usually with water \ (v. t.) To cleanse by ablution, or dipping or rubbing in water; to apply water or other liquid to for the purpose of cleansing; to scrub with water, etc., or as with water; as, to wash the hands or body; to wash garments; to wash sheep or wool; to wash the pavement or floor; to wash the bark of trees. \ (v. t.) To cover with water or any liquid; to wet; to fall on and moisten; hence, to overflow or dash against, waves wash the shore. \ (v. t.) To waste or abrade by the force of water in motion, heavy rains wash a road or an embankment. \ (v. t.) To remove by washing to take away by, or as by, the action of water; to drag or draw off as by the tide; -- often with away, off, out, to wash dirt from the hands. \ (v. t.) To cover with a thin or watery coat of color; to tint lightly and thinly. \ (v. t.) To overlay with a thin coat of metal, steel washed with silver. \ (v. i.) To perform the act of ablution. \ (v. i.) To clean anything by rubbing or dipping it in water; to perform the business of cleansing clothes, ore, in water. \ (v. i.) To bear without injury the operation of being washed, some calicoes do not wash. \ (v. i.) To be wasted or worn away by the action of water, as by a running or overflowing stream, or by the dashing of the sea; -- said of road, a beach, etc. \ (n.) The act of washing; an ablution; a cleansing, wetting, or dashing with water, a quantity, as of clothes, washed at once. \ (n.) A piece of ground washed by the action of a sea or river, or sometimes covered and sometimes left dry; the shallowest part of a river, or arm of the sea; also, a bog; a marsh; a fen, the washes in Lincolnshire. \ (n.) Substances collected and deposited by the action of water, the wash of a sewer, of a river, etc. \ (n.) Waste liquid, the refuse of food, the collection from washed dishes, from a kitchen, often used as food for pigs. \ (n.) The fermented wort before the spirit is extracted. \ (n.) A mixture of dunder, molasses, water, and scummings, used in the West Indies for distillation. \ (n.) That with which anything is washed, or wetted, smeared, tinted, upon the surface. \ (n.) A liquid cosmetic for the complexion. \ (n.) A liquid dentifrice. \ (n.) A liquid preparation for the hair, a hair wash. \ (n.) A medical preparation in a liquid form for external application; a lotion. \ (n.) A thin coat of color, esp. water color. \ (n.) A thin coat of metal laid on anything for beauty or preservation. \ (n.) The blade of an oar, or the thin part which enters the water. \ (n.) The backward current or disturbed water caused by the action of oars, or of a steamer's screw or paddles, etc. \ (n.) The flow, swash, or breaking of a body of water, as a wave, the sound of it. \ (n.) Ten strikes, or bushels, of oysters. \ (a.) Washy; weak. \ (a.) Capable of being washed without injury; washable, wash goods. \ (v. i.) To use washes, as for the face or hair.
ins watch v. to look at; to observe closely; to look and wait for \ (v. i.) The act of watching; forbearance of sleep; vigil; wakeful, vigilant, or constantly observant attention; close observation; guard; preservative or preventive vigilance; formerly, a watching or guarding by night. \ (v. i.) One who watches, or those who watch; a watchman, or a body of watchmen; a sentry; a guard. \ (v. i.) The post or office of a watchman; also, the place where a watchman is posted, or where a guard is kept. \ (v. i.) The period of the night during which a person does duty as a sentinel, or guard; the time from the placing of a sentinel till his relief; hence, a division of the night. \ (v. i.) A small timepiece, or chronometer, to be carried about the person, the machinery of which is moved by a spring. \ (n.) An allotted portion of time, usually four hour for standing watch, or being on deck ready for duty. Cf. Dogwatch. \ (n.) That part, usually one half, of the officers and crew, who together attend to the working of a vessel for an allotted time, usually four hours. The watches are designated as the port watch, and the starboard watch. \ (v. i.) To be awake; to be or continue without sleep; to wake; to keep vigil. \ (v. i.) To be attentive or vigilant; to give heed; to be on the lookout; to keep guard; to act as sentinel. \ (v. i.) To be expectant; to look with expectation; to wait; to seek opportunity. \ (v. i.) To remain awake with any one as nurse or attendant; to attend on the sick during the night; as, to watch with a man in a fever. \ (v. i.) To serve the purpose of a watchman by floating properly in its place; -- said of a buoy. \ (v. t.) To give heed to; to observe the actions or motions of, for any purpose; to keep in view; not to lose from sight and observation, to watch the progress of a bill in the legislature. \ (v. t.) To tend; to guard; to have in keeping.
ins water n. the liquid that falls from the sky as rain or is found in lakes, rivers and oceans \ (n.) The fluid which descends from the clouds in rain, and which forms rivers, lakes, seas, etc. \ (n.) A body of water, standing or flowing; a lake, river, or other collection of water. \ (n.) Any liquid secretion, humor, or the like, resembling water; esp., the urine. \ (n.) A solution in water of a gaseous or readily volatile substance; as, ammonia water. \ (n.) The limpidity and luster of a precious stone, especially a diamond, a diamond of the first water, that is, perfectly pure and transparent. Hence, of the first water, of the first excellence. \ (n.) A wavy, lustrous pattern or decoration such as is imparted to linen, silk, metals, etc. See Water, v. t., 3, Damask, and Damaskeen. \ (v. t.) An addition to the shares representing the capital of a stock company so that the aggregate par value of the shares is increased while their value for investment is diminished, or "diluted." \ (v. t.) To wet or supply with water; to moisten; to overflow with water; to irrigate, to water land; to water flowers. \ (v. t.) To supply with water for drink; to cause or allow to drink, to water cattle and horses. \ (v. t.) To wet and calender, as cloth, so as to impart to it a lustrous appearance in wavy lines; to diversify with wavelike lines, to water silk. Cf. Water, n., 6. \ (n.) To add water to (anything), thereby extending the quantity or bulk while reducing the strength or quality; to extend; to dilute; to weaken. \ (v. i.) To shed, secrete, or fill with, water or liquid matter, his eyes began to water. \ (v. i.) To get or take in water, the ship put into port to water.
ins wave v. to move or cause to move one way and the other, as a flag in the wind; to signal by moving the hand one way and the other; n. a large mass of water that forms and moves on the surface of a lake or ocean \ (v. t.) See Waive. \ (v. i.) To play loosely; to move like a wave, one way and the other; to float; to flutter; to undulate. \ (v. i.) To be moved to and fro as a signal. \ (v. i.) To fluctuate; to waver; to be in an unsettled state; to vacillate. \ (v. t.) To move one way and the other; to brandish. \ (v. t.) To raise into inequalities of surface; to give an undulating form a surface to. \ (v. t.) To move like a wave, or by floating; to waft. \ (v. t.) To call attention to, or give a direction or command to, by a waving motion, as of the hand; to signify by waving; to beckon; to signal; to indicate. \ (v. i.) An advancing ridge or swell on the surface of a liquid, as of the sea, resulting from the oscillatory motion of the particles composing it when disturbed by any force their position of rest; an undulation. \ (v. i.) A vibration propagated from particle to particle through a body or elastic medium, as in the transmission of sound; an assemblage of vibrating molecules in all phases of a vibration, with no phase repeated; a wave of vibration; an undulation. See Undulation. \ (v. i.) Water; a body of water. \ (v. i.) Unevenness; inequality of surface. \ (v. i.) A waving or undulating motion; a signal made with the hand, a flag, etc. \ (v. i.) The undulating line or streak of luster on cloth watered, or calendered, or on damask steel. \ (v. i.) Fig.: A swelling or excitement of thought, feeling, or energy; a tide; as, waves of enthusiasm. \ (n.) Woe. \ (n.) Something resembling or likened to a water wave, as in rising unusually high, in being of unusual extent, or in progressive motion; a swelling or excitement, as of feeling or energy; flood; period of intensity, usual activity, or the like, a wave of enthusiasm.
ins way n. a path on land or sea or in the air; how something is done; method \ (adv.) Away. \ (n.) That by, upon, or along, which one passes or processes; opportunity or room to pass; place of passing; passage; road, street, track, or path of any kind; as, they built a way to the mine. \ (n.) Length of space; distance; interval, a great way; a long way. \ (n.) A moving; procession; journey. \ (n.) Course or direction of motion or process; tendency of action; advance. \ (n.) The means by which anything is reached, or anything is accomplished; scheme; device; plan. \ (n.) Manner; method; mode; fashion; style, the way of expressing one's ideas. \ (n.) Regular course; habitual method of life or action; plan of conduct; mode of dealing. \ (n.) Sphere or scope of observation. \ (n.) Determined course; resolved mode of action or conduct, to have one's way. \ (n.) Progress, a ship has way. \ (n.) The timbers on which a ship is launched. \ (n.) The longitudinal guides, or guiding surfaces, on the bed of a planer, lathe, or the like, along which a table or carriage moves. \ (n.) Right of way. See below. \ (v. t.) To go or travel to; to go in, as a way or path. \ (v. i.) To move; to progress; to go.
ins we pro. two or more people, including the speaker or writer ("He and I will go together, and we will return together.") \ (pl. ) of I \ (obj.) The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb.
ins weak ad. having little power; easily broken, damaged or destroyed; opposite strong \ (v. i.) Wanting physical strength. \ (v. i.) Deficient in strength of body; feeble; infirm; sickly; debilitated; enfeebled; exhausted. \ (v. i.) Not able to sustain a great weight, pressure, or strain; as, a weak timber; a weak rope. \ (v. i.) Not firmly united or adhesive; easily broken or separated into pieces; not compact, a weak ship. \ (v. i.) Not stiff; pliant; frail; soft, the weak stalk of a plant. \ (v. i.) Not able to resist external force or onset; easily subdued or overcome, a weak barrier, a weak fortress. \ (v. i.) Lacking force of utterance or sound; not sonorous; low; small; faint. \ (v. i.) Not thoroughly or abundantly impregnated with the usual or required ingredients, or with stimulating and nourishing substances; of less than the usual strength, weak tea, broth, or liquor; a weak decoction or solution; a weak dose of medicine. \ (v. i.) Lacking ability for an appropriate function or office, weak eyes; a weak stomach; a weak magistrate; a weak regiment, or army. \ (v. i.) Not possessing or manifesting intellectual, logical, moral, or political strength, vigor, etc. \ (v. i.) Feeble of mind; wanting discernment; lacking vigor; spiritless, a weak king or magistrate. \ (v. i.) Resulting from, or indicating, lack of judgment, discernment, or firmness; unwise; hence, foolish. \ (v. i.) Not having full confidence or conviction; not decided or confirmed; vacillating; wavering. \ (v. i.) Not able to withstand temptation, urgency, persuasion, etc.; easily impressed, moved, or overcome; accessible; vulnerable, weak resolutions; weak virtue. \ (v. i.) Wanting in power to influence or bind, weak ties; a weak sense of honor of duty. \ (v. i.) Not having power to convince; not supported by force of reason or truth; unsustained, a weak argument or case. \ (v. i.) Wanting in point or vigor of expression, a weak sentence; a weak style. \ (v. i.) Not prevalent or effective, or not felt to be prevalent; not potent; feeble. \ (v. i.) Lacking in elements of political strength; not wielding or having authority or energy; deficient in the resources that are essential to a ruler or nation, a weak monarch; a weak government or state. \ (v. i.) Tending towards lower prices, a weak market. \ (v. i.) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) and past participle by adding to the present the suffix -ed, -d, or the variant form -t; as in the verbs abash, abashed; abate, abated; deny, denied; feel, felt. See Strong, 19 (a). \ (v. i.) Pertaining to, a noun in Anglo-Saxon, the stem of which ends in -n. See Strong, 19 (b). \ (a.) To make or become weak; to weaken. \ (a.) Tending toward a lower price or lower prices, wheat is weak; a weak market. \ (a.) Lacking in good cards; deficient as to number or strength, a hand weak in trumps. \ (a.) Lacking contrast, a weak negative.
ins wear v. to have on the body, as clothes \ (n.) Same as Weir. \ (v. t.) To cause to go about, as a vessel, by putting the helm up, instead of alee as in tacking, so that the vessel's bow is turned away from, and her stern is presented to, the wind, and, as she turns still farther, her sails fill on the other side; to veer. \ (v. t.) To carry or bear upon the person; to bear upon one's self, as an article of clothing, decoration, warfare, bondage, etc.; to have appendant to one's body; to have on; as, to wear a coat; to wear a shackle. \ (v. t.) To have or exhibit an appearance of, as an aspect or manner; to bear, she wears a smile on her countenance. \ (v. t.) To use up by carrying or having upon one's self; hence, to consume by use; to waste; to use up, to wear clothes rapidly. \ (v. t.) To impair, waste, or diminish, by continual attrition, scraping, percussion, on the like; to consume gradually; to cause to lower or disappear; to spend. \ (v. t.) To cause or make by friction or wasting, to wear a channel; to wear a hole. \ (v. t.) To form or shape by, or as by, attrition. \ (v. i.) To endure or suffer use; to last under employment; to bear the consequences of use, as waste, consumption, or attrition, a coat wears well or ill; -- hence, sometimes applied to character, qualifications, a man wears well as an acquaintance. \ (v. i.) To be wasted, consumed, or diminished, by being used; to suffer injury, loss, or extinction by use or time; to decay, or be spent, gradually. \ (n.) The act of wearing, or the state of being worn; consumption by use; diminution by friction, the wear of a garment. \ (n.) The thing worn; style of dress; the fashion. \ (n.) A dam in a river to stop and raise the water, for the purpose of conducting it to a mill, forming a fish pond, or the like. \ (n.) A fence of stakes, brushwood, or the like, set in a stream, tideway, or inlet of the sea, for taking fish. \ (n.) A long notch with a horizontal edge, as in the top of a vertical plate or plank, through which water flows, -- used in measuring the quantity of flowing water. \ (n.) The result of wearing or use, diminution, or impairment due to use, friction, the wear of this coat has been good.
ins week n. a period of time equal to seven days \ (n.) A period of seven days, usually that reckoned from one Sabbath or Sunday to the next.
ins welcome v. to express happiness or pleasure when someone arrives or something develops \ (n.) Received with gladness; admitted willingly to the house, entertainment, or company; as, a welcome visitor. \ (n.) Producing gladness; grateful, a welcome present; welcome news. \ (n.) Free to have or enjoy gratuitously, you are welcome to the use of my library. \ (n.) Salutation to a newcomer. \ (n.) Kind reception of a guest or newcomer, we entered the house and found a ready welcome. \ (v. t.) To salute with kindness, as a newcomer; to receive and entertain hospitably and cheerfully, to welcome a visitor; to welcome a new idea.
ins well ad. in a way that is good or pleasing; in good health; n. a hole in the ground where water, gas or oil can be found \ (v. i.) An issue of water from the earth; a spring; a fountain. \ (v. i.) A pit or hole sunk into the earth to such a depth as to reach a supply of water, generally of a cylindrical form, and often walled with stone or bricks to prevent the earth from caving in. \ (v. i.) A shaft made in the earth to obtain oil or brine. \ (v. i.) Fig.: A source of supply; fountain; wellspring. \ (v. i.) An inclosure in the middle of a vessel's hold, around the pumps, from the bottom to the lower deck, to preserve the pumps from damage and facilitate their inspection. \ (v. i.) A compartment in the middle of the hold of a fishing vessel, made tight at the sides, but having holes perforated in the bottom to let in water for the preservation of fish alive while they are transported to market. \ (v. i.) A vertical passage in the stern into which an auxiliary screw propeller may be drawn up out of water. \ (v. i.) A depressed space in the after part of the deck; -- often called the cockpit. \ (v. i.) A hole or excavation in the earth, in mining, from which run branches or galleries. \ (v. i.) An opening through the floors of a building, as for a staircase or an elevator; a wellhole. \ (v. i.) The lower part of a furnace, into which the metal falls. \ (v. i.) To issue forth, as water from the earth; to flow; to spring. \ (v. t.) To pour forth, as from a well. \ (v. t.) In a good or proper manner; justly; rightly; not ill or wickedly. \ (v. t.) Suitably to one's condition, to the occasion, or to a proposed end or use; suitably; abundantly; fully; adequately; thoroughly. \ (v. t.) Fully or about; -- used with numbers. \ (v. t.) In such manner as is desirable; so as one could wish; satisfactorily; favorably; advantageously; conveniently. \ (v. t.) Considerably; not a little; far. \ (a.) Good in condition or circumstances; desirable, either in a natural or moral sense; fortunate; convenient; advantageous; happy; as, it is well for the country that the crops did not fail; it is well that the mistake was discovered. \ (a.) Being in health; sound in body; not ailing, diseased, or sick; healthy, a well man; the patient is perfectly well. \ (a.) Being in favor; favored; fortunate. \ (a.) Safe, a chip warranted well at a certain day and place.
ins were (v. t. & i.) To wear. See 3d Wear. \ (n.) A weir. See Weir. \ (v. t.) To guard; to protect. \ The imperfect indicative plural, and imperfect subjunctive singular and plural, of the verb be. See Be. \ (n.) A man. \ (n.) A fine for slaying a man; the money value set upon a man's life; weregild.
ins west n. the direction in which the sun goes down \ (n.) The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to set at the equinox; or, the corresponding point on the earth; that one of the four cardinal points of the compass which is in a direction at right angles to that of north and south, and on the left hand of a person facing north; the point directly opposite to east. \ (n.) A country, or region of country, which, with regard to some other country or region, is situated in the direction toward the west. \ (n.) The Westen hemisphere, or the New World so called, it having been discovered by sailing westward from Europe; the Occident. \ (n.) Formerly, that part of the United States west of the Alleghany mountains; now, commonly, the whole region west of the Mississippi river; esp., that part which is north of the Indian Territory, New Mexico, etc. Usually with the definite article. \ (a.) Lying toward the west; situated at the west, or in a western direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the west, or coming from the west; as, a west course is one toward the west; an east and west line; a west wind blows from the west. \ (adv.) Westward. \ (v. i.) To pass to the west; to set, as the sun. \ (v. i.) To turn or move toward the west; to veer from the north or south toward the west. \ (a.) Designating, or situated in, that part of a church which is opposite to, and farthest from, the east, or the part containing the chancel and choir.
ins wet ad. covered with water or other liquid; not dry \ (superl.) Containing, or consisting of, water or other liquid; moist; soaked with a liquid; having water or other liquid upon the surface; as, wet land; a wet cloth; a wet table. \ (superl.) Very damp; rainy, wet weather; a wet season. \ (superl.) Employing, or done by means of, water or some other liquid, the wet extraction of copper, in distinction from dry extraction in which dry heat or fusion is employed. \ (superl.) Refreshed with liquor; drunk. \ (a.) Water or wetness; moisture or humidity in considerable degree. \ (a.) Rainy weather; foggy or misty weather. \ (a.) A dram; a drink. \ (imp. & p. p.) of Wet \ (v. t.) To fill or moisten with water or other liquid; to sprinkle; to cause to have water or other fluid adherent to the surface; to dip or soak in a liquid, to wet a sponge; to wet the hands; to wet cloth.
ins what pro. used to ask about something or to ask for information about something ("What is this?"); ad. which or which kind ("He wants to know what you would like to drink.") \ (pron., a., & adv.) As an interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions regarding either persons or things; as, what is this? what did you say? what poem is this? what child is lost? \ (pron., a., & adv.) As an exclamatory word: -- (a) Used absolutely or independently; -- often with a question following. \ (pron., a., & adv.) Used adjectively, meaning how remarkable, or how great, what folly! what eloquence! what courage! \ (pron., a., & adv.) Sometimes prefixed to adjectives in an adverbial sense, as nearly equivalent to how, what happy boys! \ (pron., a., & adv.) As a relative pronoun \ (pron., a., & adv.) Used substantively with the antecedent suppressed, equivalent to that which, or those [persons] who, or those [things] which; -- called a compound relative. \ (pron., a., & adv.) Used adjectively, equivalent to the . . . which; the sort or kind of . . . which; rarely, the . . . on, or at, which. \ (pron., a., & adv.) Used adverbially in a sense corresponding to the adjectival use, he picked what good fruit he saw. \ (pron., a., & adv.) Whatever; whatsoever; what thing soever; -- used indefinitely. \ (pron., a., & adv.) Used adverbially, in part; partly; somewhat; -- with a following preposition, especially, with, and commonly with repetition. \ (n.) Something; thing; stuff. \ (interrog. adv.) Why? For what purpose? On what account?
ins when ad. at what time; at any time ("When will she come home?"); conj. during or at the time ("I studied hard when I was in school.") \ (adv.) At what time; -- used interrogatively. \ (adv.) At what time; at, during, or after the time that; at or just after, the moment that; -- used relatively. \ (adv.) While; whereas; although; -- used in the manner of a conjunction to introduce a dependent adverbial sentence or clause, having a causal, conditional, or adversative relation to the principal proposition; as, he chose to turn highwayman when he might have continued an honest man; he removed the tree when it was the best in the grounds. \ (adv.) Which time; then; -- used elliptically as a noun.
ins where ad., conj. at, to or in what place ("Where is his house?" "The house where he lives is in the old part of the city.") \ (pron. & conj.) Whether. \ (adv.) At or in what place; hence, in what situation, position, or circumstances; -- used interrogatively. \ (adv.) At or in which place; at the place in which, in the case or instance in which; -- used relatively. \ (adv.) To what or which place, to what goal, result, or issue; whither; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as, where are you going? \ (conj.) Whereas. \ (n.) Place; situation.
ins which pro. used to ask about what one or what ones of a group of things or people ("Which program do you like best?" "Which students will take the test?") \ (a.) Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who. \ (a.) A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to die? See the Note under What, pron., 1. \ (pron.) A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons. \ (pron.) A compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like, take which you will.
ins while n. a space of time ("Please come to my house for a while."); conj. at or during the same time ("It may not be a good idea to eat while you are running.") \ (n.) Space of time, or continued duration, esp. when short; a time; as, one while we thought him innocent. \ (n.) That which requires time; labor; pains. \ (v. t.) To cause to pass away pleasantly or without irksomeness or disgust; to spend or pass; -- usually followed by away. \ (v. i.) To loiter. \ (conj.) During the time that; as long as; whilst; at the same time that, while I write, you sleep. \ (conj.) Hence, under which circumstances; in which case; though; whereas. \ (prep.) Until; till.
ins white ad. having the color like that of milk or snow \ (superl.) Reflecting to the eye all the rays of the spectrum combined; not tinted with any of the proper colors or their mixtures; having the color of pure snow; snowy; -- the opposite of black or dark; as, white paper; a white skin. \ (superl.) Destitute of color, as in the cheeks, or of the tinge of blood color; pale; pallid, white with fear. \ (superl.) Having the color of purity; free from spot or blemish, or from guilt or pollution; innocent; pure. \ (superl.) Gray, as from age; having silvery hair; hoary. \ (superl.) Characterized by freedom from that which disturbs, and the like; fortunate; happy; favorable. \ (superl.) Regarded with especial favor; favorite; darling. \ (n.) The color of pure snow; one of the natural colors of bodies, yet not strictly a color, but a composition of all colors; the opposite of black; whiteness. See the Note under Color, n., 1. \ (n.) Something having the color of snow; something white, or nearly so, the white of the eye. \ (n.) Specifically, the central part of the butt in archery, which was formerly painted white; the center of a mark at which a missile is shot. \ (n.) A person with a white skin; a member of the white, or Caucasian, races of men. \ (n.) A white pigment, Venice white. \ (n.) Any one of numerous species of butterflies belonging to Pieris, and allied genera in which the color is usually white. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage. \ (v. t.) To make white; to whiten; to whitewash; to bleach.
ins who pro. what or which person or persons that ("Who wants to go?"); the person or persons ("They are the ones who want to go.") \ (object.) Originally, an interrogative pronoun, later, a relative pronoun also; -- used always substantively, and either as singular or plural. See the Note under What, pron., 1. As interrogative pronouns, who and whom ask the question: What or which person or persons? Who and whom, as relative pronouns (in the sense of that), are properly used of persons (corresponding to which, as applied to things), but are sometimes, less properly and now rarely, used of animals, plants, etc. Who and whom, as compound relatives, are also used especially of persons, meaning the person that; the persons that; the one that; whosoever. \ (pron.) One; any; one.
ins whom (pron.) The objective case of who. See Who.
ins whose (pron.) The possessive case of who or which. See Who, and Which.
ins why ad. for what cause or reason ("Why did she do it?"); conj. the reason for which ("I do not know why she did it.") \ (adv.) For what cause, reason, or purpose; on what account; wherefore; -- used interrogatively. See the Note under What, pron., 1. \ (adv.) For which; on account of which; -- used relatively. \ (adv.) The reason or cause for which; that on account of which; as, I know not why he left town so suddenly; -- used as a compound relative. \ (n.) A young heifer.
ins wide ad. having a great distance from one side to the other; not limited \ (superl.) Having considerable distance or extent between the sides; spacious across; much extended in a direction at right angles to that of length; not narrow; broad; as, wide cloth; a wide table; a wide highway; a wide bed; a wide hall or entry. \ (superl.) Having a great extent every way; extended; spacious; vast; extensive, a wide plain; the wide ocean; a wide difference. \ (superl.) Of large scope; comprehensive; liberal, wide views; a wide understanding. \ (superl.) Of a certain measure between the sides; measuring in a direction at right angles to that of length, a table three feet wide. \ (superl.) Remote; distant; far. \ (superl.) Far from truth, from propriety, from necessity, or the like. \ (superl.) On one side or the other of the mark; too far side-wise from the mark, the wicket, the batsman, etc. \ (superl.) Made, as a vowel, with a less tense, and more open and relaxed, condition of the mouth organs; -- opposed to primary as used by Mr. Bell, and to narrow as used by Mr. Sweet. The effect, as explained by Mr. Bell, is due to the relaxation or tension of the pharynx; as explained by Mr. Sweet and others, it is due to the action of the tongue. The wide of \ (adv.) To a distance; far; widely; to a great distance or extent, his fame was spread wide. \ (adv.) So as to leave or have a great space between the sides; so as to form a large opening. \ (adv.) So as to be or strike far from, or on one side of, an object or purpose; aside; astray. \ (n.) That which is wide; wide space; width; extent. \ (n.) That which goes wide, or to one side of the mark. \ (a.) Having or showing a wide difference between the highest and lowest price, amount of supply, etc., a wide opening; wide prices, where the prices bid and asked differ by several points. / (/ve) is / (/ll); of a (ate) is / (/nd), etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 13-15.
ins wife n. a woman who is married \ (n.) A woman; an adult female; -- now used in literature only in certain compounds and phrases, as alewife, fishwife, goodwife, and the like. \ (n.) The lawful consort of a man; a woman who is united to a man in wedlock; a woman who has a husband; a married woman; -- correlative of husband.
ins wild ad. living and growing in natural conditions and not organized or supervised by humans; angry; uncontrolled \ (superl.) Living in a state of nature; inhabiting natural haunts, as the forest or open field; not familiar with, or not easily approached by, man; not tamed or domesticated; as, a wild boar; a wild ox; a wild cat. \ (superl.) Growing or produced without culture; growing or prepared without the aid and care of man; native; not cultivated; brought forth by unassisted nature or by animals not domesticated, wild parsnip, wild camomile, wild strawberry, wild honey. \ (superl.) Desert; not inhabited or cultivated, wild land. \ (superl.) Savage; uncivilized; not refined by culture; ferocious; rude, wild natives of Africa or America. \ (superl.) Not submitted to restraint, training, or regulation; turbulent; tempestuous; violent; ungoverned; licentious; inordinate; disorderly; irregular; fanciful; imaginary; visionary; crazy. \ (superl.) Exposed to the wind and sea; unsheltered, a wild roadstead. \ (superl.) Indicating strong emotion, intense excitement, or /ewilderment, a wild look. \ (superl.) Hard to steer; -- said of a vessel. \ (n.) An uninhabited and uncultivated tract or region; a forest or desert; a wilderness; a waste, the wilds of America; the wilds of Africa. \ (adv.) Wildly, to talk wild.
ins will v. a word used with action words to show future action ("They will hold talks tomorrow.") \ (v.) The power of choosing; the faculty or endowment of the soul by which it is capable of choosing; the faculty or power of the mind by which we decide to do or not to do; the power or faculty of preferring or selecting one of two or more objects. \ (v.) The choice which is made; a determination or preference which results from the act or exercise of the power of choice; a volition. \ (v.) The choice or determination of one who has authority; a decree; a command; discretionary pleasure. \ (v.) Strong wish or inclination; desire; purpose. \ (v.) That which is strongly wished or desired. \ (v.) Arbitrary disposal; power to control, dispose, or determine. \ (v.) The legal declaration of a person's mind as to the manner in which he would have his property or estate disposed of after his death; the written instrument, legally executed, by which a man makes disposition of his estate, to take effect after his death; testament; devise. See the Note under Testament, 1. \ (adv.) To wish; to desire; to incline to have. \ (adv.) As an auxiliary, will is used to denote futurity dependent on the verb. Thus, in first person, "I will" denotes willingness, consent, promise; and when "will" is emphasized, it denotes determination or fixed purpose; as, I will go if you wish; I will go at all hazards. In the second and third persons, the idea of distinct volition, wish, or purpose is evanescent, and simple certainty is appropriately expressed, "You will go," or "He will go," describes a future event as a fact only. To emphasize will denotes (according to the tone or context) certain futurity or fixed determination. \ (v. i.) To be willing; to be inclined or disposed; to be pleased; to wish; to desire. \ (n.) To form a distinct volition of; to determine by an act of choice; to ordain; to decree. \ (n.) To enjoin or command, as that which is determined by an act of volition; to direct; to order. \ (n.) To give or direct the disposal of by testament; to bequeath; to devise, to will one's estate to a child; also, to order or direct by testament, he willed that his nephew should have his watch. \ (v. i.) To exercise an act of volition; to choose; to decide; to determine; to decree.
ins wind n. a strong movement of air \ (v. t.) To turn completely, or with repeated turns; especially, to turn about something fixed; to cause to form convolutions about anything; to coil; to twine; to twist; to wreathe; as, to wind thread on a spool or into a ball. \ (v. t.) To entwist; to infold; to encircle. \ (v. t.) To have complete control over; to turn and bend at one's pleasure; to vary or alter or will; to regulate; to govern. \ (v. t.) To introduce by insinuation; to insinuate. \ (v. t.) To cover or surround with something coiled about, to wind a rope with twine. \ (v. i.) To turn completely or repeatedly; to become coiled about anything; to assume a convolved or spiral form, vines wind round a pole. \ (v. i.) To have a circular course or direction; to crook; to bend; to meander, to wind in and out among trees. \ (v. i.) To go to the one side or the other; to move this way and that; to double on one's course, a hare pursued turns and winds. \ (n.) The act of winding or turning; a turn; a bend; a twist; a winding. \ (n.) Air naturally in motion with any degree of velocity; a current of air. \ (n.) Air artificially put in motion by any force or action, the wind of a cannon ball; the wind of a bellows. \ (n.) Breath modulated by the respiratory and vocal organs, or by an instrument. \ (n.) Power of respiration; breath. \ (n.) Air or gas generated in the stomach or bowels; flatulence, to be troubled with wind. \ (n.) Air impregnated with an odor or scent. \ (n.) A direction from which the wind may blow; a point of the compass, one of the cardinal points, which are often called the four winds. \ (n.) A disease of sheep, in which the intestines are distended with air, or rather affected with a violent inflammation. It occurs immediately after shearing. \ (n.) Mere breath or talk; empty effort; idle words. \ (n.) The dotterel. \ (v. t.) To expose to the wind; to winnow; to ventilate. \ (v. t.) To perceive or follow by the scent; to scent; to nose, the hounds winded the game. \ (v. t.) To drive hard, or force to violent exertion, as a horse, so as to render scant of wind; to put out of breath. \ (v. t.) To rest, in order to allow the breath to be recovered; to breathe. \ (v. t.) To blow; to sound by blowing; esp., to sound with prolonged and mutually involved notes. \ (n.) The region of the pit of the stomach, where a blow may paralyze the diaphragm and cause temporary loss of breath or other injury; the mark.
ins window n. an opening in a wall to let in light and air, usually filled with glass \ (n.) An opening in the wall of a building for the admission of light and air, usually closed by casements or sashes containing some transparent material, as glass, and capable of being opened and shut at pleasure. \ (n.) The shutter, casement, sash with its fittings, or other framework, which closes a window opening. \ (n.) A figure formed of lines crossing each other. \ (v. t.) To furnish with windows. \ (v. t.) To place at or in a window.
ins wine (n.) The expressed juice of grapes, esp. when fermented; a beverage or liquor prepared from grapes by squeezing out their juice, and (usually) allowing it to ferment. \ (n.) A liquor or beverage prepared from the juice of any fruit or plant by a process similar to that for grape wine; as, currant wine; gooseberry wine; palm wine. \ (n.) The effect of drinking wine in excess; intoxication.
ins winter n. the coldest time of year, between autumn and spring \ (n.) The season of the year in which the sun shines most obliquely upon any region; the coldest season of the year. \ (n.) The period of decay, old age, death, or the like. \ (v. i.) To pass the winter; to hibernate; as, to winter in Florida. \ (v. i.) To keep, feed or manage, during the winter, to winter young cattle on straw.
ins wise ad. having much knowledge and understanding; able to use knowledge and understanding to make good or correct decisions \ (v.) Having knowledge; knowing; enlightened; of extensive information; erudite; learned. \ (v.) Hence, especially, making due use of knowledge; discerning and judging soundly concerning what is true or false, proper or improper; choosing the best ends and the best means for accomplishing them; sagacious. \ (v.) Versed in art or science; skillful; dexterous; specifically, skilled in divination. \ (v.) Hence, prudent; calculating; shrewd; wary; subtle; crafty. \ (v.) Dictated or guided by wisdom; containing or exhibiting wisdom; well adapted to produce good effects; judicious; discreet; as, a wise saying; a wise scheme or plan; wise conduct or management; a wise determination. \ (v.) Way of being or acting; manner; mode; fashion.
ins with prep. along or by the side of; together; using ("He fixed it with a tool."); having ("the house with the red door") \ (n.) See Withe. \ (prep.) With denotes or expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the like. \ (prep.) To denote a close or direct relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against. \ (prep.) To denote association in respect of situation or environment; hence, among; in the company of. \ (prep.) To denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance, etc., on the side of. \ (prep.) To denote the accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes equivalent to by. \ (prep.) To denote association in thought, as for comparison or contrast. \ (prep.) To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or consequence. \ (prep.) To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as, the firmament with its stars; a bride with a large fortune.
ins without prep. with no; not having or using; free from; not doing \ (prep.) On or at the outside of; out of; not within; as, without doors. \ (prep.) Out of the limits of; out of reach of; beyond. \ (prep.) Not with; otherwise than with; in absence of, separation from, or destitution of; not with use or employment of; independently of; exclusively of; with omission, without labor; without damage. \ (conj.) Unless; except; -- introducing a clause. \ (adv.) On or art the outside; not on the inside; outwardly; externally. \ (adv.) Outside of the house; out of doors.
ins woman n. an adult female human \ (n.) An adult female person; a grown-up female person, as distinguished from a man or a child; sometimes, any female person. \ (n.) The female part of the human race; womankind. \ (n.) A female attendant or servant. \ (v. t.) To act the part of a woman in; -- with indefinite it. \ (v. t.) To make effeminate or womanish. \ (v. t.) To furnish with, or unite to, a woman.
ins wonderful ad. causing wonder; especially good \ (a.) Adapted to excite wonder or admiration; surprising; strange; astonishing.
ins wood n. the solid material of which trees are made \ (a.) Mad; insane; possessed; rabid; furious; frantic. \ (v. i.) To grow mad; to act like a madman; to mad. \ (n.) A large and thick collection of trees; a forest or grove; -- frequently used in the plural. \ (n.) The substance of trees and the like; the hard fibrous substance which composes the body of a tree and its branches, and which is covered by the bark; timber. \ (n.) The fibrous material which makes up the greater part of the stems and branches of trees and shrubby plants, and is found to a less extent in herbaceous stems. It consists of elongated tubular or needle-shaped cells of various kinds, usually interwoven with the shinning bands called silver grain. \ (n.) Trees cut or sawed for the fire or other uses. \ (v. t.) To supply with wood, or get supplies of wood for; as, to wood a steamboat or a locomotive. \ (v. i.) To take or get a supply of wood.
ins word n. one or more connected sounds that form a single part of a language \ (n.) The spoken sign of a conception or an idea; an articulate or vocal sound, or a combination of articulate and vocal sounds, uttered by the human voice, and by custom expressing an idea or ideas; a single component part of human speech or language; a constituent part of a sentence; a term; a vocable. \ (n.) Hence, the written or printed character, or combination of characters, expressing such a term; as, the words on a page. \ (n.) Talk; discourse; speech; language. \ (n.) Account; tidings; message; communication; information; -- used only in the singular. \ (n.) Signal; order; command; direction. \ (n.) Language considered as implying the faith or authority of the person who utters it; statement; affirmation; declaration; promise. \ (n.) Verbal contention; dispute. \ (n.) A brief remark or observation; an expression; a phrase, clause, or short sentence. \ (v. i.) To use words, as in discussion; to argue; to dispute. \ (v. t.) To express in words; to phrase. \ (v. t.) To ply with words; also, to cause to be by the use of a word or words. \ (v. t.) To flatter with words; to cajole.
ins work v. to use physical or mental effort to make or do something; n. the effort used to make or to do something; that which needs effort; the job one does to earn money
ins world n. the earth; the people who live on the earth \ (n.) The earth and the surrounding heavens; the creation; the system of created things; existent creation; the universe. \ (n.) Any planet or heavenly body, especially when considered as inhabited, and as the scene of interests analogous with human interests; as, a plurality of worlds. \ (n.) The earth and its inhabitants, with their concerns; the sum of human affairs and interests. \ (n.) In a more restricted sense, that part of the earth and its concerns which is known to any one, or contemplated by any one; a division of the globe, or of its inhabitants; human affairs as seen from a certain position, or from a given point of view; also, state of existence; scene of life and action, the Old World; the New World; the religious world; the Catholic world; the upper world; the future world; the heathen world. \ (n.) The customs, practices, and interests of men; general affairs of life; human society; public affairs and occupations, a knowledge of the world. \ (n.) Individual experience of, or concern with, life; course of life; sum of the affairs which affect the individual, to begin the world with no property; to lose all, and begin the world anew. \ (n.) The inhabitants of the earth; the human race; people in general; the public; mankind. \ (n.) The earth and its affairs as distinguished from heaven; concerns of this life as distinguished from those of the life to come; the present existence and its interests; hence, secular affairs; engrossment or absorption in the affairs of this life; worldly corruption; the ungodly or wicked part of mankind. \ (n.) As an emblem of immensity, a great multitude or quantity; a large number.
ins worry v. to be concerned; to continue thinking that something, possibly bad, can happen \ (v. t.) To harass by pursuit and barking; to attack repeatedly; also, to tear or mangle with the teeth. \ (v. t.) To harass or beset with importunity, or with care an anxiety; to vex; to annoy; to torment; to tease; to fret; to trouble; to plague. \ (v. t.) To harass with labor; to fatigue. \ (v. i.) To feel or express undue care and anxiety; to manifest disquietude or pain; to be fretful; to chafe; as, the child worries; the horse worries. \ (n.) A state of undue solicitude; a state of disturbance from care and anxiety; vexation; anxiety; fret, to be in a worry.
ins worst (a.) Bad, evil, or pernicious, in the highest degree, whether in a physical or moral sense. See Worse. \ (n.) That which is most bad or evil; the most severe, pernicious, calamitous, or wicked state or degree. \ (a.) To gain advantage over, in contest or competition; to get the better of; to defeat; to overthrow; to discomfit. \ (v. i.) To grow worse; to deteriorate.
ins would (imp.) of Will \ (v. t.) Commonly used as an auxiliary verb, either in the past tense or in the conditional or optative present. See 2d & 3d Will. \ (n.) See 2d Weld.
ins write v. to use an instrument to make words appear on a surface, such as paper \ (v. t.) To set down, as legible characters; to form the conveyance of meaning; to inscribe on any material by a suitable instrument; as, to write the characters called letters; to write figures. \ (v. t.) To set down for reading; to express in legible or intelligible characters; to inscribe, to write a deed; to write a bill of divorcement; hence, specifically, to set down in an epistle; to communicate by letter. \ (v. t.) Hence, to compose or produce, as an author. \ (v. t.) To impress durably; to imprint; to engrave, truth written on the heart. \ (v. t.) To make known by writing; to record; to prove by one's own written testimony; -- often used reflexively. \ (v. i.) To form characters, letters, or figures, as representative of sounds or ideas; to express words and sentences by written signs. \ (v. i.) To be regularly employed or occupied in writing, copying, or accounting; to act as clerk or amanuensis, he writes in one of the public offices. \ (v. i.) To frame or combine ideas, and express them in written words; to play the author; to recite or relate in books; to compose. \ (v. i.) To compose or send letters.
ins wrong ad. not correct; bad; not legal; opposite right \ imp. of Wring. Wrung. \ (a.) Twisted; wry; as, a wrong nose. \ (a.) Not according to the laws of good morals, whether divine or human; not suitable to the highest and best end; not morally right; deviating from rectitude or duty; not just or equitable; not true, a wrong practice; wrong ideas; wrong inclinations and desires. \ (a.) Not fit or suitable to an end or object; not appropriate for an intended use; not according to rule; unsuitable; improper; incorrect, to hold a book with the wrong end uppermost; to take the wrong way. \ (a.) Not according to truth; not conforming to fact or intent; not right; mistaken; erroneous, a wrong statement. \ (a.) Designed to be worn or placed inward, the wrong side of a garment or of a piece of cloth. \ (adv.) In a wrong manner; not rightly; amiss; morally ill; erroneously; wrongly. \ (a.) That which is not right. \ (a.) Nonconformity or disobedience to lawful authority, divine or human; deviation from duty; -- the opposite of moral right. \ (a.) Deviation or departure from truth or fact; state of falsity; error, to be in the wrong. \ (a.) Whatever deviates from moral rectitude; usually, an act that involves evil consequences, as one which inflicts injury on a person; any injury done to, or received from; another; a trespass; a violation of right. \ (v. t.) To treat with injustice; to deprive of some right, or to withhold some act of justice from; to do undeserved harm to; to deal unjustly with; to injure. \ (v. t.) To impute evil to unjustly, if you suppose me capable of a base act, you wrong me.
ins yard (v. i.) A rod; a stick; a staff. \ (v. i.) A branch; a twig. \ (v. i.) A long piece of timber, as a rafter, etc. \ (v. i.) A measure of length, equaling three feet, or thirty-six inches, being the standard of English and American measure. \ (v. i.) The penis. \ (v. i.) A long piece of timber, nearly cylindrical, tapering toward the ends, and designed to support and extend a square sail. A yard is usually hung by the center to the mast. See Illust. of Ship. \ (n.) An inclosure; usually, a small inclosed place in front of, or around, a house or barn; as, a courtyard; a cowyard; a barnyard. \ (n.) An inclosure within which any work or business is carried on, a dockyard; a shipyard. \ (v. t.) To confine (cattle) to the yard; to shut up, or keep, in a yard, to yard cows. \ (n.) A place where moose or deer herd together in winter for pasture, protection, etc.
ins year n. a period of time equal to twelve months \ (n.) The time of the apparent revolution of the sun trough the ecliptic; the period occupied by the earth in making its revolution around the sun, called the astronomical year; also, a period more or less nearly agreeing with this, adopted by various nations as a measure of time, and called the civil year; as, the common lunar year of 354 days, still in use among the Mohammedans; the year of 360 days, etc. In common usage, the year consists of 365 days, and every fourth year (called bissextile, or leap year) of 366 days, a day being added to February on that year, on account of the excess above 365 days (see Bissextile). \ (n.) The time in which any planet completes a revolution about the sun, the year of Jupiter or of Saturn. \ (n.) Age, or old age, a man in years.
ins yellow ad. having the color like that of gold or the sun \ (superl.) Being of a bright saffronlike color; of the color of gold or brass; having the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is between the orange and the green. \ (n.) A bright golden color, reflecting more light than any other except white; the color of that part of the spectrum which is between the orange and green. \ (n.) A yellow pigment. \ (v. t.) To make yellow; to cause to have a yellow tinge or color; to dye yellow. \ (v. i.) To become yellow or yellower. \ (a.) Cowardly; hence, dishonorable; mean; contemptible; as, he has a yellow streak. \ (a.) Sensational; -- said of some newspapers, their makers, etc., yellow journal, journalism
ins yes ad. used to express agreement or to permit \ (adv.) Ay; yea; -- a word which expresses affirmation or consent; -- opposed to no.
ins yesterday n. the day before today \ (n.) The day last past; the day next before the present. \ (n.) Fig.: A recent time; time not long past. \ (adv.) On the day last past; on the day preceding to-day; as, the affair took place yesterday.
ins you pro. the person or persons being spoken to \ (dat. & obj.) The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed. See the Note under Ye.
ins young ad. in the early years of life; not old \ (superl.) Not long born; still in the first part of life; not yet arrived at adolescence, maturity, or age; not old; juvenile; -- said of animals; as, a young child; a young man; a young fawn. \ (superl.) Being in the first part, pr period, of growth, a young plant; a young tree. \ (superl.) Having little experience; inexperienced; unpracticed; ignorant; weak. \ (n.) The offspring of animals, either a single animal or offspring collectively.
ins your (pron. & a.) The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you.
ins yours (pron.) See the Note under Your.
ins zoo n. a place where animals are kept for the public to look at and study
ins ability (n.) The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity; skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill, resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.
ins abroad (adv.) At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads its branches abroad. \ (adv.) Without a certain confine; outside the house; away from one's abode, to walk abroad. \ (adv.) Beyond the bounds of a country; in foreign countries, we have broils at home and enemies abroad. \ (adv.) Before the public at large; throughout society or the world; here and there; widely.
ins absent (a.) Being away from a place; withdrawn from a place; not present. \ (a.) Not existing; lacking; as, the part was rudimental or absent. \ (a.) Inattentive to what is passing; absent-minded; preoccupied, an absent air. \ (v. t.) To take or withdraw (one's self) to such a distance as to prevent intercourse; -- used with the reflexive pronoun. \ (v. t.) To withhold from being present.
ins accent (n.) A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the others. \ (n.) A mark or character used in writing, and serving to regulate the pronunciation; esp.: (a) a mark to indicate the nature and place of the spoken accent; (b) a mark to indicate the quality of sound of the vowel marked; as, the French accents. \ (n.) Modulation of the voice in speaking; manner of speaking or pronouncing; peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice; tone, a foreign accent; a French or a German accent. \ (n.) A word; a significant tone \ (n.) expressions in general; speech. \ (n.) Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse. \ (n.) A regularly recurring stress upon the tone to mark the beginning, and, more feebly, the third part of the measure. \ (n.) A special emphasis of a tone, even in the weaker part of the measure. \ (n.) The rhythmical accent, which marks phrases and sections of a period. \ (n.) The expressive emphasis and shading of a passage. \ (n.) A mark placed at the right hand of a letter, and a little above it, to distinguish magnitudes of a similar kind expressed by the same letter, but differing in value, as y', y''. \ (n.) A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating minutes of a degree, seconds, etc., 12'27'', i. e., twelve minutes twenty seven seconds. \ (n.) A mark used to denote feet and inches, 6' 10'' is six feet ten inches. \ (v. t.) To express the accent of (either by the voice or by a mark); to utter or to mark with accent. \ (v. t.) To mark emphatically; to emphasize.
ins accept v. to agree to receive \ (v. t.) To receive with a consenting mind (something offered); as, to accept a gift; -- often followed by of. \ (v. t.) To receive with favor; to approve. \ (v. t.) To receive or admit and agree to; to assent to, I accept your proposal, amendment, or excuse. \ (v. t.) To take by the mind; to understand, How are these words to be accepted? \ (v. t.) To receive as obligatory and promise to pay, to accept a bill of exchange. \ (v. t.) In a deliberate body, to receive in acquittance of a duty imposed, to accept the report of a committee. [This makes it the property of the body, and the question is then on its adoption.] \ (a.) Accepted.
ins accident n. something that happens by chance or mistake; an unplanned event \ (n.) Literally, a befalling; an event that takes place without one's foresight or expectation; an undesigned, sudden, and unexpected event; chance; contingency; often, an undesigned and unforeseen occurrence of an afflictive or unfortunate character; a casualty; a mishap; as, to die by an accident. \ (n.) A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, as gender, number, case. \ (n.) A point or mark which may be retained or omitted in a coat of arms. \ (n.) A property or quality of a thing which is not essential to it, as whiteness in paper; an attribute. \ (n.) A quality or attribute in distinction from the substance, as sweetness, softness. \ (n.) Any accidental property, fact, or relation; an accidental or nonessential, beauty is an accident. \ (n.) Unusual appearance or effect.
ins account (n.) A reckoning; computation; calculation; enumeration; a record of some reckoning; as, the Julian account of time. \ (n.) A registry of pecuniary transactions; a written or printed statement of business dealings or debts and credits, and also of other things subjected to a reckoning or review, to keep one's account at the bank. \ (n.) A statement in general of reasons, causes, grounds, etc., explanatory of some event, no satisfactory account has been given of these phenomena. Hence, the word is often used simply for reason, ground, consideration, motive, on no account, on every account, on all accounts. \ (n.) A statement of facts or occurrences; recital of transactions; a relation or narrative; a report; a description, an account of a battle. \ (n.) A statement and explanation or vindication of one's conduct with reference to judgment thereon. \ (n.) An estimate or estimation; valuation; judgment. \ (n.) Importance; worth; value; advantage; profit. \ (v. t.) To reckon; to compute; to count. \ (v. t.) To place to one's account; to put to the credit of; to assign; -- with to. \ (v. t.) To value, estimate, or hold in opinion; to judge or consider; to deem. \ (v. t.) To recount; to relate. \ (v. i.) To render or receive an account or relation of particulars, an officer must account with or to the treasurer for money received. \ (v. i.) To render an account; to answer in judgment; -- with for, we must account for the use of our opportunities. \ (v. i.) To give a satisfactory reason; to tell the cause of; to explain, idleness accounts for poverty.
ins action (n.) A process or condition of acting or moving, as opposed to rest; the doing of something; exertion of power or force, as when one body acts on another; the effect of power exerted on one body by another; agency; activity; operation; as, the action of heat; a man of action. \ (n.) An act; a thing done; a deed; an enterprise. (pl.): Habitual deeds; hence, conduct; behavior; demeanor. \ (n.) The event or connected series of events, either real or imaginary, forming the subject of a play, poem, or other composition; the unfolding of the drama of events. \ (n.) Movement, the horse has a spirited action. \ (n.) Effective motion; also, mechanism, the breech action of a gun. \ (n.) Any one of the active processes going on in an organism; the performance of a function, the action of the heart, the muscles, or the gastric juice. \ (n.) Gesticulation; the external deportment of the speaker, or the suiting of his attitude, voice, gestures, and countenance, to the subject, or to the feelings. \ (n.) The attitude or position of the several parts of the body as expressive of the sentiment or passion depicted. \ (n.) A suit or process, by which a demand is made of a right in a court of justice; in a broad sense, a judicial proceeding for the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense. \ (n.) A right of action, the law gives an action for every claim. \ (n.) A share in the capital stock of a joint-stock company, or in the public funds, in the plural, equivalent to stocks. \ (n.) An engagement between troops in war, whether on land or water; a battle; a fight, a general action, a partial action. \ (n.) The mechanical contrivance by means of which the impulse of the player's finger is transmitted to the strings of a pianoforte or to the valve of an organ pipe.
ins active (a.) Having the power or quality of acting; causing change; communicating action or motion; acting; -- opposed to passive, that receives; as, certain active principles; the powers of the mind. \ (a.) Quick in physical movement; of an agile and vigorous body; nimble, an active child or animal. \ (a.) In action; actually proceeding; working; in force; -- opposed to quiescent, dormant, or extinct, active laws; active hostilities; an active volcano. \ (a.) Given to action; constantly engaged in action; energetic; diligent; busy; -- opposed to dull, sluggish, indolent, or inert, an active man of business; active mind; active zeal. \ (a.) Requiring or implying action or exertion; -- opposed to sedentary or to tranquil, active employment or service; active scenes. \ (a.) Given to action rather than contemplation; practical; operative; -- opposed to speculative or theoretical, an active rather than a speculative statesman. \ (a.) Brisk; lively, an active demand for corn. \ (a.) Implying or producing rapid action, an active disease; an active remedy. \ (a.) Applied to a form of the verb; -- opposed to passive. See Active voice, under Voice.  \ (a.) Applied to verbs which assert that the subject acts upon or affects something else; transitive. \ (a.) Applied to all verbs that express action as distinct from mere existence or state.
ins activity (n.) The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility; vigorous action or operation; energy; active force; as, an increasing variety of human activities.
ins actor n. someone acting in a play or show \ (n.) One who acts, or takes part in any affair; a doer. \ (n.) A theatrical performer; a stageplayer. \ (n.) An advocate or proctor in civil courts or causes. \ (n.) One who institutes a suit; plaintiff or complainant.
ins actress (n.) A female actor or doer. \ (n.) A female stageplayer; a woman who acts a part.
ins actual (a.) Involving or comprising action; active. \ (a.) Existing in act or reality; really acted or acting; in fact; real; -- opposed to potential, possible, virtual, speculative, conceivable, theoretical, or nominal; as, the actual cost of goods; the actual case under discussion. \ (a.) In action at the time being; now exiting; present; as the actual situation of the country. \ (n.) Something actually received, as distinct from estimated, receipts.
ins actually (adv.) Actively. \ (adv.) In act or in fact; really; in truth; positively.
ins add v. to put (something) with another to make it larger; to say more \ (v. t.) To give by way of increased possession (to any one); to bestow (on). \ (v. t.) To join or unite, as one thing to another, or as several particulars, so as to increase the number, augment the quantity, enlarge the magnitude, or so as to form into one aggregate. Hence: To sum up; to put together mentally; as, to add numbers; to add up a column. \ (v. t.) To append, as a statement; to say further. \ (v. i.) To make an addition. To add to, to augment; to increase, it adds to our anxiety. \ (v. i.) To perform the arithmetical operation of addition, he adds rapidly.
ins address (v.) To aim; to direct. \ (v.) To prepare or make ready. \ (v.) Reflexively: To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or energies (to some object); to betake. \ (v.) To clothe or array; to dress. \ (v.) To direct, as words (to any one or any thing); to make, as a speech, petition, etc. (to any one, an audience). \ (v.) To direct speech to; to make a communication to, whether spoken or written; to apply to by words, as by a speech, etc., to speak to; to accost. \ (v.) To direct in writing, as a letter; to superscribe, or to direct and transmit; as, he addressed a letter. \ (v.) To make suit to as a lover; to court; to woo. \ (v.) To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or factor, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore. \ (v. i.) To prepare one's self. \ (v. i.) To direct speech. \ (v. t.) Act of preparing one's self. \ (v. t.) Act of addressing one's self to a person; verbal application. \ (v. t.) A formal communication, either written or spoken; a discourse; a speech; a formal application to any one; a petition; a formal statement on some subject or special occasion, an address of thanks, an address to the voters. \ (v. t.) Direction or superscription of a letter, or the name, title, and place of residence of the person addressed. \ (v. t.) Manner of speaking to another; delivery, a man of pleasing or insinuating address. \ (v. t.) Attention in the way one's addresses to a lady. \ (v. t.) Skill; skillful management; dexterity; adroitness.
ins admire (v. t.) To regard with wonder or astonishment; to view with surprise; to marvel at. \ (v. t.) To regard with wonder and delight; to look upon with an elevated feeling of pleasure, as something which calls out approbation, esteem, love, or reverence; to estimate or prize highly; as, to admire a person of high moral worth, to admire a landscape. \ (v. i.) To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; -- sometimes with at.
ins adult n. a grown person \ (a.) Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength; matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age. \ (n.) A person, animal, or plant grown to full size and strength; one who has reached maturity.
ins adventure (n.) That which happens without design; chance; hazard; hap; hence, chance of danger or loss. \ (n.) Risk; danger; peril. \ (n.) The encountering of risks; hazardous and striking enterprise; a bold undertaking, in which hazards are to be encountered, and the issue is staked upon unforeseen events; a daring feat. \ (n.) A remarkable occurrence; a striking event; a stirring incident; as, the adventures of one's life. \ (n.) A mercantile or speculative enterprise of hazard; a venture; a shipment by a merchant on his own account. \ (n.) To risk, or hazard; jeopard; to venture. \ (n.) To venture upon; to run the risk of; to dare. \ (v. i.) To try the chance; to take the risk.
ins advice (n.) An opinion recommended or offered, as worthy to be followed; counsel. \ (n.) Deliberate consideration; knowledge. \ (n.) Information or notice given; intelligence; as, late advices from France; -- commonly in the plural. \ (n.) Counseling to perform a specific illegal act.
ins advise v. to help with information, knowledge or ideas in making a decision \ (v. t.) To give advice to; to offer an opinion, as worthy or expedient to be followed; to counsel; to warn. \ (v. t.) To give information or notice to; to inform; -- with of before the thing communicated; as, we were advised of the risk. \ (v. t.) To consider; to deliberate. \ (v. t.) To take counsel; to consult; -- followed by with, to advise with friends.
ins afterward (adv.) At a later or succeeding time.
ins agency n. an organization that is part of a larger group ("an agency of the United Nations") \ (n.) The faculty of acting or of exerting power; the state of being in action; action; instrumentality. \ (n.) The office of an agent, or factor; the relation between a principal and his agent; business of one intrusted with the concerns of another. \ (n.) The place of business of am agent.
ins agent (a.) Acting; -- opposed to patient, or sustaining, action. \ (n.) One who exerts power, or has the power to act; an actor. \ (n.) One who acts for, or in the place of, another, by authority from him; one intrusted with the business of another; a substitute; a deputy; a factor. \ (n.) An active power or cause; that which has the power to produce an effect; as, a physical, chemical, or medicinal agent, heat is a powerful agent.
ins agree v. to have the same belief as someone; to be willing to do something \ (adv.) In good part; kindly. \ (v. i.) To harmonize in opinion, statement, or action; to be in unison or concord; to be or become united or consistent; to concur; as, all parties agree in the expediency of the law. \ (v. i.) To yield assent; to accede; -- followed by to, to agree to an offer, or to opinion. \ (v. i.) To make a stipulation by way of settling differences or determining a price; to exchange promises; to come to terms or to a common resolve; to promise. \ (v. i.) To be conformable; to resemble; to coincide; to correspond, the picture does not agree with the original; the two scales agree exactly. \ (v. i.) To suit or be adapted in its effects; to do well, the same food does not agree with every constitution. \ (v. i.) To correspond in gender, number, case, or person. \ (v. t.) To make harmonious; to reconcile or make friends. \ (v. t.) To admit, or come to one mind concerning; to settle; to arrange, to agree the fact; to agree differences.
ins ah (interj.) An exclamation, expressive of surprise, pity, complaint, entreaty, contempt, threatening, delight, triumph, etc., according to the manner of utterance.
ins ahead (adv.) In or to the front; in advance; onward. \ (adv.) Headlong; without restraint.
ins aim v. to point a gun at; n. a goal or purpose \ (v. i.) To point or direct a missile weapon, or a weapon which propels as missile, towards an object or spot with the intent of hitting it; as, to aim at a fox, or at a target. \ (v. i.) To direct the indention or purpose; to attempt the accomplishment of a purpose; to try to gain; to endeavor; -- followed by at, or by an infinitive, to aim at distinction; to aim to do well. \ (v. i.) To guess or conjecture. \ (v. t.) To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; to direct, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against an object, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist or a blow (at something); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice). \ (v. i.) The pointing of a weapon, as a gun, a dart, or an arrow, in the line of direction with the object intended to be struck; the line of fire; the direction of anything, as a spear, a blow, a discourse, a remark, towards a particular point or object, with a view to strike or affect it. \ (v. i.) The point intended to be hit, or object intended to be attained or affected. \ (v. i.) Intention; purpose; design; scheme. \ (v. i.) Conjecture; guess.
ins alive ad. having life; not dead \ (a.) Having life, in opposition to dead; living; being in a state in which the organs perform their functions; as, an animal or a plant which is alive. \ (a.) In a state of action; in force or operation; unextinguished; unexpired; existent, to keep the fire alive; to keep the affections alive. \ (a.) Exhibiting the activity and motion of many living beings; swarming; thronged. \ (a.) Sprightly; lively; brisk. \ (a.) Having susceptibility; easily impressed; having lively feelings, as opposed to apathy; sensitive. \ (a.) Of all living (by way of emphasis).
ins allow (v. t.) To praise; to approve of; hence, to sanction. \ (v. t.) To like; to be suited or pleased with. \ (v. t.) To sanction; to invest; to intrust. \ (v. t.) To grant, give, admit, accord, afford, or yield; to let one have; as, to allow a servant his liberty; to allow a free passage; to allow one day for rest. \ (v. t.) To own or acknowledge; to accept as true; to concede; to accede to an opinion, to allow a right; to allow a claim; to allow the truth of a proposition. \ (v. t.) To grant (something) as a deduction or an addition; esp. to abate or deduct, to allow a sum for leakage. \ (v. t.) To grant license to; to permit; to consent to, to allow a son to be absent. \ (v. i.) To admit; to make allowance or abatement.
ins almond (n.) The fruit of the almond tree. \ (n.) The tree that bears the fruit; almond tree. \ (n.) Anything shaped like an almond. \ (n.) One of the tonsils.
ins alphabet (n.) The letters of a language arranged in the customary order; the series of letters or signs which form the elements of written language. \ (n.) The simplest rudiments; elements. \ (v. t.) To designate by the letters of the alphabet; to arrange alphabetically.
ins amount n. the number, size or weight of anything \ (n.) To go up; to ascend. \ (n.) To rise or reach by an accumulation of particular sums or quantities; to come (to) in the aggregate or whole; -- with to or unto. \ (n.) To rise, reach, or extend in effect, substance, or influence; to be equivalent; to come practically (to); as, the testimony amounts to very little. \ (v. t.) To signify; to amount to. \ (n.) The sum total of two or more sums or quantities; the aggregate; the whole quantity; a totality, the amount of 7 and 9 is 16; the amount of a bill; the amount of this year's revenue. \ (n.) The effect, value, significance, or result; the sum, the amount of the testimony is this.
ins angel (n.) A messenger. \ (n.) A spiritual, celestial being, superior to man in power and intelligence. In the Scriptures the angels appear as God's messengers. \ (n.) One of a class of "fallen angels;" an evil spirit; as, the devil and his angels. \ (n.) A minister or pastor of a church, as in the Seven Asiatic churches. \ (n.) Attendant spirit; genius; demon. \ (n.) An appellation given to a person supposed to be of angelic goodness or loveliness; a darling. \ (n.) An ancient gold coin of England, bearing the figure of the archangel Michael. It varied in value from 6s. 8d. to 10s.
ins anger n. a strong emotion against someone or something \ (n.) Trouble; vexation; also, physical pain or smart of a sore, etc. \ (n.) A strong passion or emotion of displeasure or antagonism, excited by a real or supposed injury or insult to one's self or others, or by the intent to do such injury. \ (v. t.) To make painful; to cause to smart; to inflame. \ (v. t.) To excite to anger; to enrage; to provoke.
ins announce v. to make known publicly; to declare officially \ (v. t.) To give public notice, or first notice of; to make known; to publish; to proclaim. \ (v. t.) To pronounce; to declare by judicial sentence.
ins ant (n.) A hymenopterous insect of the Linnaean genus Formica, which is now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.
ins anxious (a.) Full of anxiety or disquietude; greatly concerned or solicitous, esp. respecting something future or unknown; being in painful suspense; -- applied to persons; as, anxious for the issue of a battle. \ (a.) Accompanied with, or causing, anxiety; worrying; -- applied to things, anxious labor. \ (a.) Earnestly desirous, anxious to please.
ins anyway (adv.) Alt. of Anyways
ins anywhere (adv.) In any place.
ins apart (adv.) Separately, in regard to space or company; in a state of separation as to place; aside. \ (adv.) In a state of separation, of exclusion, or of distinction, as to purpose, use, or character, or as a matter of thought; separately; independently; as, consider the two propositions apart. \ (adv.) Aside; away. \ (adv.) In two or more parts; asunder; to piece, to take a piece of machinery apart.
ins appear v. to show oneself; to come into sight; to seem \ (v. i.) To come or be in sight; to be in view; to become visible. \ (v. i.) To come before the public; as, a great writer appeared at that time. \ (v. i.) To stand in presence of some authority, tribunal, or superior person, to answer a charge, plead a cause, or the like; to present one's self as a party or advocate before a court, or as a person to be tried. \ (v. i.) To become visible to the apprehension of the mind; to be known as a subject of observation or comprehension, or as a thing proved; to be obvious or manifest. \ (v. i.) To seem; to have a certain semblance; to look. \ (n.) Appearance.
ins appearance (n.) The act of appearing or coming into sight; the act of becoming visible to the eye; as, his sudden appearance surprised me. \ (n.) A thing seed; a phenomenon; a phase; an apparition, an appearance in the sky. \ (n.) Personal presence; exhibition of the person; look; aspect; mien. \ (n.) Semblance, or apparent likeness; external show. pl. Outward signs, or circumstances, fitted to make a particular impression or to determine the judgment as to the character of a person or a thing, an act or a state, appearances are against him. \ (n.) The act of appearing in a particular place, or in society, a company, or any proceedings; a coming before the public in a particular character, a person makes his appearance as an historian, an artist, or an orator. \ (n.) Probability; likelihood. \ (n.) The coming into court of either of the parties; the being present in court; the coming into court of a party summoned in an action, either by himself or by his attorney, expressed by a formal entry by the proper officer to that effect; the act or proceeding by which a party proceeded against places himself before the court, and submits to its jurisdiction.
ins apply (v. t.) To lay or place; to put or adjust (one thing to another); -- with to; as, to apply the hand to the breast; to apply medicaments to a diseased part of the body. \ (v. t.) To put to use; to use or employ for a particular purpose, or in a particular case; to appropriate; to devote, to apply money to the payment of a debt. \ (v. t.) To make use of, declare, or pronounce, as suitable, fitting, or relative, to apply the testimony to the case; to apply an epithet to a person. \ (v. t.) To fix closely; to engage and employ diligently, or with attention; to attach; to incline. \ (v. t.) To direct or address. \ (v. t.) To betake; to address; to refer; -- used reflexively. \ (v. t.) To busy; to keep at work; to ply. \ (v. t.) To visit. \ (v. i.) To suit; to agree; to have some connection, agreement, or analogy, this argument applies well to the case. \ (v. i.) To make request; to have recourse with a view to gain something; to make application. (to); to solicit, to apply to a friend for information. \ (v. i.) To ply; to move. \ (v. i.) To apply or address one's self; to give application; to attend closely (to).
ins approach (v. i.) To come or go near, in place or time; to draw nigh; to advance nearer. \ (v. i.) To draw near, in a figurative sense; to make advances; to approximate; as, he approaches to the character of the ablest statesman. \ (v. t.) To bring near; to cause to draw near; to advance. \ (v. t.) To come near to in place, time, or character; to draw nearer to, to approach the city; to approach my cabin; he approached the age of manhood. \ (v. t.) To take approaches to. \ (v. i.) The act of drawing near; a coming or advancing near. \ (v. i.) A access, or opportunity of drawing near. \ (v. i.) Movements to gain favor; advances. \ (v. i.) A way, passage, or avenue by which a place or buildings can be approached; an access. \ (v. i.) The advanced works, trenches, or covered roads made by besiegers in their advances toward a fortress or military post. \ (v. i.) See Approaching. \ (n.) A stroke whose object is to land the ball on the putting green. It is made with an iron club.
ins apron (n.) An article of dress, of cloth, leather, or other stuff, worn on the fore part of the body, to keep the clothes clean, to defend them from injury, or as a covering. It is commonly tied at the waist by strings. \ (n.) Something which by its shape or use suggests an apron; \ (n.) The fat skin covering the belly of a goose or duck. \ (n.) A piece of leather, or other material, to be spread before a person riding on an outside seat of a vehicle, to defend him from the rain, snow, or dust; a boot. \ (n.) A leaden plate that covers the vent of a cannon. \ (n.) A piece of carved timber, just above the foremost end of the keel. \ (n.) A platform, or flooring of plank, at the entrance of a dock, against which the dock gates are shut. \ (n.) A flooring of plank before a dam to cause the water to make a gradual descent. \ (n.) The piece that holds the cutting tool of a planer. \ (n.) A strip of lead which leads the drip of a wall into a gutter; a flashing. \ (n.) The infolded abdomen of a crab.
ins area n. any place or part of it \ (n.) Any plane surface, as of the floor of a room or church, or of the ground within an inclosure; an open space in a building. \ (n.) The inclosed space on which a building stands. \ (n.) The sunken space or court, giving ingress and affording light to the basement of a building. \ (n.) An extent of surface; a tract of the earth's surface; a region; as, vast uncultivated areas. \ (n.) The superficial contents of any figure; the surface included within any given lines; superficial extent, the area of a square or a triangle. \ (n.) A spot or small marked space, the germinative area. \ (n.) Extent; scope; range, a wide area of thought.
ins army n. military ground forces \ (n.) A collection or body of men armed for war, esp. one organized in companies, battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, under proper officers. \ (n.) A body of persons organized for the advancement of a cause; as, the Blue Ribbon Army. \ (n.) A great number; a vast multitude; a host.
ins arrange (v. t.) To put in proper order; to dispose (persons, or parts) in the manner intended, or best suited for the purpose; as, troops arranged for battle. \ (v. t.) To adjust or settle; to prepare; to determine, to arrange the preliminaries of an undertaking.
ins arrangement (n.) The act of arranging or putting in an orderly condition; the state of being arranged or put in order; disposition in suitable form. \ (n.) The manner or result of arranging; system of parts disposed in due order; regular and systematic classification; as, arrangement of one's dress; the Linnaean arrangement of plants. \ (n.) Preparatory proceeding or measure; preparation, we have made arrangement for receiving company. \ (n.) Settlement; adjustment by agreement, the parties have made an arrangement between themselves concerning their disputes; a satisfactory arrangement. \ (n.) The adaptation of a composition to voices or instruments for which it was not originally written. \ (n.) A piece so adapted; a transcription, a pianoforte arrangement of Beethoven's symphonies; an orchestral arrangement of a song, an opera, or the like.
ins arrival (n.) The act of arriving, or coming; the act of reaching a place from a distance, whether by water (as in its original sense) or by land. \ (n.) The attainment or reaching of any object, by effort, or in natural course; as, our arrival at this conclusion was wholly unexpected. \ (n.) The person or thing arriving or which has arrived, news brought by the last arrival. \ (n.) An approach.
ins aside (adv.) On, or to, one side; out of a straight line, course, or direction; at a little distance from the rest; out of the way; apart. \ (adv.) Out of one's thoughts; off; away; as, to put aside gloomy thoughts. \ (adv.) So as to be heard by others; privately. \ (n.) Something spoken aside, a remark made by a stageplayer which the other players are not supposed to hear.
ins asleep (a. & adv.) In a state of sleep; in sleep; dormant. \ (a. & adv.) In the sleep of the grave; dead. \ (a. & adv.) Numbed, and, usually, tingling.
ins assist v. to help \ (v. t.) To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time of distress; to help; to aid; to succor. \ (v. i.) To lend aid; to help. \ (v. i.) To be present as a spectator; as, to assist at a public meeting.
ins attend v. to be present at \ (v. t.) To direct the attention to; to fix the mind upon; to give heed to; to regard. \ (v. t.) To care for; to look after; to take charge of; to watch over. \ (v. t.) To go or stay with, as a companion, nurse, or servant; to visit professionally, as a physician; to accompany or follow in order to do service; to escort; to wait on; to serve. \ (v. t.) To be present with; to accompany; to be united or consequent to; as, a measure attended with ill effects. \ (v. t.) To be present at, to attend church, school, a concert, a business meeting. \ (v. t.) To wait for; to await; to remain, abide, or be in store for. \ (v. i.) To apply the mind, or pay attention, with a view to perceive, understand, or comply; to pay regard; to heed; to listen; -- usually followed by to. \ (v. i.) To accompany or be present or near at hand, in pursuance of duty; to be ready for service; to wait or be in waiting; -- often followed by on or upon. \ (v. i.) (with to) To take charge of, to attend to a matter of business. \ (v. i.) To wait; to stay; to delay.
ins attention (n.) The act or state of attending or heeding; the application of the mind to any object of sense, representation, or thought; notice; exclusive or special consideration; earnest consideration, thought, or regard; obedient or affectionate heed; the supposed power or faculty of attending. \ (n.) An act of civility or courtesy; care for the comfort and pleasure of others; as, attentions paid to a stranger.
ins audience (a.) The act of hearing; attention to sounds. \ (a.) Admittance to a hearing; a formal interview, esp. with a sovereign or the head of a government, for conference or the transaction of business. \ (a.) An auditory; an assembly of hearers. Also applied by authors to their readers.
ins automobile n. a vehicle with wheels used to carry people; a car \ (n.) An automobile vehicle or mechanism; esp., a self-propelled vehicle suitable for use on a street or roadway. Automobiles are usually propelled by internal combustion engines (using volatile inflammable liquids, as gasoline or petrol, alcohol, naphtha, etc.), steam engines, or electric motors. The power of the driving motor varies from about 4 to 50 H. P. for ordinary vehicles, ranging from the run-about to the touring car, up to as high as 200 H. P. for specially built racing cars. Automobiles are also commonly, and generally in British usage, called motor cars.
ins awake ad. not sleeping \ (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to wake; to awaken. \ (v. t.) To rouse from a state resembling sleep, as from death, stupidity., or inaction; to put into action; to give new life to; to stir up; as, to awake the dead; to awake the dormant faculties. \ (v. i.) To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep; and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction or death. \ (a.) Not sleeping or lethargic; roused from sleep; in a state of vigilance or action.
ins aware (a.) Watchful; vigilant or on one's guard against danger or difficulty. \ (a.) Apprised; informed; cognizant; conscious; as, he was aware of the enemy's designs.
ins awful (a.) Oppressing with fear or horror; appalling; terrible; as, an awful scene. \ (a.) Inspiring awe; filling with profound reverence, or with fear and admiration; fitted to inspire reverential fear; profoundly impressive. \ (a.) Struck or filled with awe; terror-stricken. \ (a.) Worshipful; reverential; law-abiding. \ (a.) Frightful; exceedingly bad; great; -- applied intensively, an awful bonnet; an awful boaster.
ins backward (adv.) Alt. of Backwards \ (a.) Directed to the back or rear; as, backward glances. \ (a.) Unwilling; averse; reluctant; hesitating; loath. \ (a.) Not well advanced in learning; not quick of apprehension; dull; inapt, a backward child. \ (a.) Late or behindhand, a backward season. \ (a.) Not advanced in civilization; undeveloped, the country or region is in a backward state. \ (a.) Already past or gone; bygone. \ (n.) The state behind or past. \ (v. i.) To keep back; to hinder.
ins badly (adv.) In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly; unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably; seriously.
ins balance v. to make two sides or forces equal \ (n.) An apparatus for weighing. \ (n.) Act of weighing mentally; comparison; estimate. \ (n.) Equipoise between the weights in opposite scales. \ (n.) The state of being in equipoise; equilibrium; even adjustment; steadiness. \ (n.) An equality between the sums total of the two sides of an account; as, to bring one's accounts to a balance; -- also, the excess on either side, the balance of an account. \ (n.) A balance wheel, as of a watch, or clock. See Balance wheel (in the Vocabulary). \ (n.) The constellation Libra. \ (n.) The seventh sign in the Zodiac, called Libra, which the sun enters at the equinox in September. \ (n.) A movement in dancing. See Balance, v. i., S. \ (n.) To bring to an equipoise, as the scales of a balance by adjusting the weights; to weigh in a balance. \ (n.) To support on a narrow base, so as to keep from falling, to balance a plate on the end of a cane; to balance one's self on a tight rope. \ (n.) To equal in number, weight, force, or proportion; to counterpoise, counterbalance, counteract, or neutralize. \ (n.) To compare in relative force, importance, value, etc.; to estimate. \ (n.) To settle and adjust, as an account; to make two accounts equal by paying the difference between them. \ (n.) To make the sums of the debits and credits of an account equal; -- said of an item, this payment, or credit, balances the account. \ (n.) To arrange accounts in such a way that the sum total of the debits is equal to the sum total of the credits, to balance a set of books. \ (n.) To move toward, and then back from, reciprocally, to balance partners. \ (n.) To contract, as a sail, into a narrower compass, to balance the boom mainsail. \ (v. i.) To have equal weight on each side; to be in equipoise, the scales balance. \ (v. i.) To fluctuate between motives which appear of equal force; to waver; to hesitate. \ (v. i.) To move toward a person or couple, and then back.
ins balloon n. a device of strong, light material that rises when filled with gas lighter than air \ (n.) A bag made of silk or other light material, and filled with hydrogen gas or heated air, so as to rise and float in the atmosphere; especially, one with a car attached for aerial navigation. \ (n.) A ball or globe on the top of a pillar, church, etc., as at St. Paul's, in London. \ (n.) A round vessel, usually with a short neck, to hold or receive whatever is distilled; a glass vessel of a spherical form. \ (n.) A bomb or shell. \ (n.) A game played with a large inflated ball. \ (n.) The outline inclosing words represented as coming from the mouth of a pictured figure. \ (v. t.) To take up in, or as if in, a balloon. \ (v. i.) To go up or voyage in a balloon. \ (v. i.) To expand, or puff out, like a balloon.
ins band (v. t.) A fillet, strap, or any narrow ligament with which a thing is encircled, or fastened, or by which a number of things are tied, bound together, or confined; a fetter. \ (v. t.) A continuous tablet, stripe, or series of ornaments, as of carved foliage, of color, or of brickwork, etc. \ (v. t.) In Gothic architecture, the molding, or suite of moldings, which encircles the pillars and small shafts. \ (v. t.) That which serves as the means of union or connection between persons; a tie. \ (v. t.) A linen collar or ruff worn in the 16th and 17th centuries. \ (v. t.) Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of a clerical, legal, or academic dress. \ (v. t.) A narrow strip of cloth or other material on any article of dress, to bind, strengthen, ornament, or complete it. \ (v. t.) A company of persons united in any common design, especially a body of armed men. \ (v. t.) A number of musicians who play together upon portable musical instruments, especially those making a loud sound, as certain wind instruments (trumpets, clarinets, etc.), and drums, or cymbals. \ (v. t.) A space between elevated lines or ribs, as of the fruits of umbelliferous plants. \ (v. t.) A stripe, streak, or other mark transverse to the axis of the body. \ (v. t.) A belt or strap. \ (v. t.) A bond \ (v. t.) Pledge; security. \ (v. t.) To bind or tie with a band. \ (v. t.) To mark with a band. \ (v. t.) To unite in a troop, company, or confederacy. \ (v. i.) To confederate for some common purpose; to unite; to conspire together. \ (v. t.) To bandy; to drive away. \ imp. of Bind.
ins bar v. to prevent or block \ (n.) A piece of wood, metal, or other material, long in proportion to its breadth or thickness, used as a lever and for various other purposes, but especially for a hindrance, obstruction, or fastening; as, the bars of a fence or gate; the bar of a door. \ (n.) An indefinite quantity of some substance, so shaped as to be long in proportion to its breadth and thickness, a bar of gold or of lead; a bar of soap. \ (n.) Anything which obstructs, hinders, or prevents; an obstruction; a barrier. \ (n.) A bank of sand, gravel, or other matter, esp. at the mouth of a river or harbor, obstructing navigation. \ (n.) Any railing that divides a room, or office, or hall of assembly, in order to reserve a space for those having special privileges, the bar of the House of Commons. \ (n.) The railing that incloses the place which counsel occupy in courts of justice. Hence, the phrase at the bar of the court signifies in open court. \ (n.) The place in court where prisoners are stationed for arraignment, trial, or sentence. \ (n.) The whole body of lawyers licensed in a court or district; the legal profession. \ (n.) A special plea constituting a sufficient answer to plaintiff's action. \ (n.) Any tribunal, the bar of public opinion; the bar of God. \ (n.) A barrier or counter, over which liquors and food are passed to customers; hence, the portion of the room behind the counter where liquors for sale are kept. \ (n.) An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifth part of the field. \ (n.) A broad shaft, or band, or stripe, a bar of light; a bar of color. \ (n.) A vertical line across the staff. Bars divide the staff into spaces which represent measures, and are themselves called measures. \ (n.) The space between the tusks and grinders in the upper jaw of a horse, in which the bit is placed. \ (n.) The part of the crust of a horse's hoof which is bent inwards towards the frog at the heel on each side, and extends into the center of the sole. \ (n.) A drilling or tamping rod. \ (n.) A vein or dike crossing a lode. \ (n.) A gatehouse of a castle or fortified town. \ (n.) A slender strip of wood which divides and supports the glass of a window; a sash bar. \ (n.) To fasten with a bar, to bar a door or gate. \ (n.) To restrict or confine, as if by a bar; to hinder; to obstruct; to prevent; to prohibit, to bar the entrance of evil; distance bars our intercourse; the statute bars my right; the right is barred by time; a release bars the plaintiff's recovery; -- sometimes with up. \ (n.) To except; to exclude by exception. \ (n.) To cross with one or more stripes or lines.
ins base n. a military center; v. to establish as a fact ("Her research was based on experiments.")
ins basic (a.) Relating to a base; performing the office of a base in a salt. \ (a.) Having the base in excess, or the amount of the base atomically greater than that of the acid, or exceeding in proportion that of the related neutral salt. \ (a.) Apparently alkaline, as certain normal salts which exhibit alkaline reactions with test paper. \ (a.) Said of crystalline rocks which contain a relatively low percentage of silica, as basalt.
ins battle n. a fight between opposing armed forces \ (a.) Fertile. See Battel, a. \ (v. t.) A general action, fight, or encounter, in which all the divisions of an army are or may be engaged; an engagement; a combat. \ (v. t.) A struggle; a contest; as, the battle of life. \ (v. t.) A division of an army; a battalion. \ (v. t.) The main body, as distinct from the van and rear; battalia. \ (n.) To join in battle; to contend in fight, to battle over theories. \ (v. t.) To assail in battle; to fight.
ins bay (a.) Reddish brown; of the color of a chestnut; -- applied to the color of horses. \ (n.) An inlet of the sea, usually smaller than a gulf, but of the same general character. \ (n.) A small body of water set off from the main body; as a compartment containing water for a wheel; the portion of a canal just outside of the gates of a lock, etc. \ (n.) A recess or indentation shaped like a bay. \ (n.) A principal compartment of the walls, roof, or other part of a building, or of the whole building, as marked off by the buttresses, vaulting, mullions of a window, etc.; one of the main divisions of any structure, as the part of a bridge between two piers. \ (n.) A compartment in a barn, for depositing hay, or grain in the stalks. \ (n.) A kind of mahogany obtained from Campeachy Bay. \ (n.) A berry, particularly of the laurel. \ (n.) The laurel tree (Laurus nobilis). Hence, in the plural, an honorary garland or crown bestowed as a prize for victory or excellence, anciently made or consisting of branches of the laurel. \ (n.) A tract covered with bay trees. \ (v. i.) To bark, as a dog with a deep voice does, at his game. \ (v. t.) To bark at; hence, to follow with barking; to bring or drive to bay; as, to bay the bear. \ (v. i.) Deep-toned, prolonged barking. \ (v. i.) A state of being obliged to face an antagonist or a difficulty, when escape has become impossible. \ (v. t.) To bathe. \ (n.) A bank or dam to keep back water. \ (v. t.) To dam, as water; -- with up or back.
ins beach (n.) Pebbles, collectively; shingle. \ (n.) The shore of the sea, or of a lake, which is washed by the waves; especially, a sandy or pebbly shore; the strand. \ (v. t.) To run or drive (as a vessel or a boat) upon a beach; to strand; as, to beach a ship.
ins bean (n.) A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chiefly of the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs. \ (n.) The popular name of other vegetable seeds or fruits, more or less resembling true beans.
ins bear (v. t.) To support or sustain; to hold up. \ (v. t.) To support and remove or carry; to convey. \ (v. t.) To conduct; to bring; -- said of persons. \ (v. t.) To possess and use, as power; to exercise. \ (v. t.) To sustain; to have on (written or inscribed, or as a mark), as, the tablet bears this inscription. \ (v. t.) To possess or carry, as a mark of authority or distinction; to wear, to bear a sword, badge, or name. \ (v. t.) To possess mentally; to carry or hold in the mind; to entertain; to harbor \ (v. t.) To endure; to tolerate; to undergo; to suffer. \ (v. t.) To gain or win. \ (v. t.) To sustain, or be answerable for, as blame, expense, responsibility, etc. \ (v. t.) To render or give; to bring forward. \ (v. t.) To carry on, or maintain; to have. \ (v. t.) To admit or be capable of; that is, to suffer or sustain without violence, injury, or change. \ (v. t.) To manage, wield, or direct. \ (v. t.) To behave; to conduct. \ (v. t.) To afford; to be to; to supply with. \ (v. t.) To bring forth or produce; to yield, to bear apples; to bear children; to bear interest. \ (v. i.) To produce, as fruit; to be fruitful, in opposition to barrenness. \ (v. i.) To suffer, as in carrying a burden. \ (v. i.) To endure with patience; to be patient. \ (v. i.) To press; -- with on or upon, or against. \ (v. i.) To take effect; to have influence or force, to bring matters to bear. \ (v. i.) To relate or refer, how does this bear on the question? \ (v. i.) To have a certain meaning, intent, or effect. \ (v. i.) To be situated, as to the point of compass, with respect to something else, the land bears N. by E. \ (n.) A bier. \ (n.) Any species of the genus Ursus, and of the closely allied genera. Bears are plantigrade Carnivora, but they live largely on fruit and insects. \ (n.) An animal which has some resemblance to a bear in form or habits, but no real affinity, the woolly bear; ant bear; water bear; sea bear. \ (n.) One of two constellations in the northern hemisphere, called respectively the Great Bear and the Lesser Bear, or Ursa Major and Ursa Minor. \ (n.) Metaphorically: A brutal, coarse, or morose person. \ (n.) A person who sells stocks or securities for future delivery in expectation of a fall in the market. \ (n.) A portable punching machine. \ (n.) A block covered with coarse matting; -- used to scour the deck. \ (v. t.) To endeavor to depress the price of, or prices in, to bear a railroad stock; to bear the market. \ (n.) Alt. of Bere
ins beard (n.) The hair that grows on the chin, lips, and adjacent parts of the human face, chiefly of male adults. \ (n.) The long hairs about the face in animals, as in the goat. \ (n.) The cluster of small feathers at the base of the beak in some birds \ (n.) The appendages to the jaw in some Cetacea, and to the mouth or jaws of some fishes. \ (n.) The byssus of certain shellfish, as the muscle. \ (n.) The gills of some bivalves, as the oyster. \ (n.) In insects, the hairs of the labial palpi of moths and butterflies. \ (n.) Long or stiff hairs on a plant; the awn; as, the beard of grain. \ (n.) A barb or sharp point of an arrow or other instrument, projecting backward to prevent the head from being easily drawn out. \ (n.) That part of the under side of a horse's lower jaw which is above the chin, and bears the curb of a bridle. \ (n.) That part of a type which is between the shoulder of the shank and the face. \ (n.) An imposition; a trick. \ (v. t.) To take by the beard; to seize, pluck, or pull the beard of (a man), in anger or contempt. \ (v. t.) To oppose to the gills; to set at defiance. \ (v. t.) To deprive of the gills; -- used only of oysters and similar shellfish.
ins beat v. to hit again and again \ (imp.) of Beat \ (p. p.) of Beat \ (v. t.) To strike repeatedly; to lay repeated blows upon; as, to beat one's breast; to beat iron so as to shape it; to beat grain, in order to force out the seeds; to beat eggs and sugar; to beat a drum. \ (v. t.) To punish by blows; to thrash. \ (v. t.) To scour or range over in hunting, accompanied with the noise made by striking bushes, etc., for the purpose of rousing game. \ (v. t.) To dash against, or strike, as with water or wind. \ (v. t.) To tread, as a path. \ (v. t.) To overcome in a battle, contest, strife, race, game; to vanquish or conquer; to surpass. \ (v. t.) To cheat; to chouse; to swindle; to defraud; -- often with out. \ (v. t.) To exercise severely; to perplex; to trouble. \ (v. t.) To give the signal for, by beat of drum; to sound by beat of drum, to beat an alarm, a charge, a parley, a retreat; to beat the general, the reveille, the tattoo. See Alarm, Charge, Parley, etc. \ (v. i.) To strike repeatedly; to inflict repeated blows; to knock vigorously or loudly. \ (v. i.) To move with pulsation or throbbing. \ (v. i.) To come or act with violence; to dash or fall with force; to strike anything, rain, wind, and waves do. \ (v. i.) To be in agitation or doubt. \ (v. i.) To make progress against the wind, by sailing in a zigzag line or traverse. \ (v. i.) To make a sound when struck, the drums beat. \ (v. i.) To make a succession of strokes on a drum, the drummers beat to call soldiers to their quarters. \ (v. i.) To sound with more or less rapid alternations of greater and less intensity, so as to produce a pulsating effect; -- said of instruments, tones, or vibrations, not perfectly in unison. \ (n.) A stroke; a blow. \ (n.) A recurring stroke; a throb; a pulsation, a beat of the heart; the beat of the pulse. \ (n.) The rise or fall of the hand or foot, marking the divisions of time; a division of the measure so marked. In the rhythm of music the beat is the unit. \ (n.) A transient grace note, struck immediately before the one it is intended to ornament. \ (n.) A sudden swelling or reenforcement of a sound, recurring at regular intervals, and produced by the interference of sound waves of slightly different periods of vibrations; applied also, by analogy, to other kinds of wave motions; the pulsation or throbbing produced by the vibrating together of two tones not quite in unison. See Beat, v. i., 8. \ (v. i.) A round or course which is frequently gone over, a watchman's beat. \ (v. i.) A place of habitual or frequent resort. \ (v. i.) A cheat or swindler of the lowest grade; -- often emphasized by dead, a dead beat. \ (a.) Weary; tired; fatigued; exhausted. \ (n.) One that beats, or surpasses, another or others, the beat of him. \ (n.) The act of one that beats a person or thing \ (n.) The act of obtaining and publishing a piece of news by a newspaper before its competitors; also, the news itself; a scoop. \ (n.) A smart tap on the adversary's blade.
ins beauty ad. that which pleases the eye, ear or spirit \ (n.) An assemblage or graces or properties pleasing to the eye, the ear, the intellect, the aesthetic faculty, or the moral sense. \ (n.) A particular grace, feature, ornament, or excellence; anything beautiful; as, the beauties of nature. \ (n.) A beautiful person, esp. a beautiful woman. \ (n.) Prevailing style or taste; rage; fashion.
ins bee p. p. of Be; -- used for been. \ (n.) An insect of the order Hymenoptera, and family Apidae (the honeybees), or family Andrenidae (the solitary bees.) See Honeybee. \ (n.) A neighborly gathering of people who engage in united labor for the benefit of an individual or family; as, a quilting bee; a husking bee; a raising bee. \ (n.) Pieces of hard wood bolted to the sides of the bowsprit, to reeve the fore-topmast stays through; -- called also bee blocks.
ins beer (n.) A fermented liquor made from any malted grain, but commonly from barley malt, with hops or some other substance to impart a bitter flavor. \ (n.) A fermented extract of the roots and other parts of various plants, as spruce, ginger, sassafras, etc.
ins behave (v. t.) To manage or govern in point of behavior; to discipline; to handle; to restrain. \ (v. t.) To carry; to conduct; to comport; to manage; to bear; -- used reflexively. \ (v. i.) To act; to bear or carry one's self; as, to behave well or ill.
ins belong v. to be owned by; to be a member of \ (v. i.) To be the property of; as, Jamaica belongs to Great Britain. \ (v. i.) To be a part of, or connected with; to be appendant or related; to owe allegiance or service. \ (v. i.) To be the concern or proper business or function of; to appertain to. \ (v. i.) To be suitable for; to be due to. \ (v. i.) To be native to, or an inhabitant of; esp. to have a legal residence, settlement, or inhabitancy, whether by birth or operation of law, so as to be entitled to maintenance by the parish or town. \ (v. t.) To be deserved by.
ins belt (n.) That which engirdles a person or thing; a band or girdle; as, a lady's belt; a sword belt. \ (n.) That which restrains or confines as a girdle. \ (n.) Anything that resembles a belt, or that encircles or crosses like a belt; a strip or stripe, a belt of trees; a belt of sand. \ (n.) Same as Band, n., 2. A very broad band is more properly termed a belt. \ (n.) One of certain girdles or zones on the surface of the planets Jupiter and Saturn, supposed to be of the nature of clouds. \ (n.) A narrow passage or strait, the Great Belt and the Lesser Belt, leading to the Baltic Sea. \ (n.) A token or badge of knightly rank. \ (n.) A band of leather, or other flexible substance, passing around two wheels, and communicating motion from one to the other. \ (n.) A band or stripe, as of color, round any organ; or any circular ridge or series of ridges. \ (v. t.) To encircle with, or as with, a belt; to encompass; to surround. \ (v. t.) To shear, as the buttocks and tails of sheep.
ins bend (v. t.) To strain or move out of a straight line; to crook by straining; to make crooked; to curve; to make ready for use by drawing into a curve; as, to bend a bow; to bend the knee. \ (v. t.) To turn toward some certain point; to direct; to incline. \ (v. t.) To apply closely or with interest; to direct. \ (v. t.) To cause to yield; to render submissive; to subdue. \ (v. t.) To fasten, as one rope to another, or as a sail to its yard or stay; or as a cable to the ring of an anchor. \ (v. i.) To be moved or strained out of a straight line; to crook or be curving; to bow. \ (v. i.) To jut over; to overhang. \ (v. i.) To be inclined; to be directed. \ (v. i.) To bow in prayer, or in token of submission. \ (n.) A turn or deflection from a straight line or from the proper direction or normal position; a curve; a crook, a slight bend of the body; a bend in a road. \ (n.) Turn; purpose; inclination; ends. \ (n.) A knot by which one rope is fastened to another or to an anchor, spar, or post. \ (n.) The best quality of sole leather; a butt. See Butt. \ (n.) Hard, indurated clay; bind. \ (n.) same as caisson disease. Usually referred to as the bends. \ (n.) A band. \ (n.) One of the honorable ordinaries, containing a third or a fifth part of the field. It crosses the field diagonally from the dexter chief to the sinister base.
ins beyond (prep.) On the further side of; in the same direction as, and further on or away than. \ (prep.) At a place or time not yet reached; before. \ (prep.) Past, out of the reach or sphere of; further than; greater than; as, the patient was beyond medical aid; beyond one's strength. \ (prep.) In a degree or amount exceeding or surpassing; proceeding to a greater degree than; above, as in dignity, excellence, or quality of any kind. \ (adv.) Further away; at a distance; yonder.
ins bill n. a legislative proposal \ (n.) A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal. \ (v. i.) To strike; to peck. \ (v. i.) To join bills, as doves; to caress in fondness. \ (n.) The bell, or boom, of the bittern \ (n.) A cutting instrument, with hook-shaped point, and fitted with a handle; -- used in pruning, etc.; a billhook. When short, called a hand bill, when long, a hedge bill. \ (n.) A weapon of infantry, in the 14th and 15th centuries. A common form of bill consisted of a broad, heavy, double-edged, hook-shaped blade, having a short pike at the back and another at the top, and attached to the end of a long staff. \ (n.) One who wields a bill; a billman. \ (n.) A pickax, or mattock. \ (n.) The extremity of the arm of an anchor; the point of or beyond the fluke. \ (v. t.) To work upon ( as to dig, hoe, hack, or chop anything) with a bill. \ (n.) A declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the complainant has suffered from the defendant, or a fault committed by some person against a law. \ (n.) A writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a future day or on demand, with or without interest, as may be stated in the document. \ (n.) A form or draft of a law, presented to a legislature for enactment; a proposed or projected law. \ (n.) A paper, written or printed, and posted up or given away, to advertise something, as a lecture, a play, or the sale of goods; a placard; a poster; a handbill. \ (n.) An account of goods sold, services rendered, or work done, with the price or charge; a statement of a creditor's claim, in gross or by items, a grocer's bill. \ (n.) Any paper, containing a statement of particulars, a bill of charges or expenditures; a weekly bill of mortality; a bill of fare, etc. \ (v. t.) To advertise by a bill or public notice. \ (v. t.) To charge or enter in a bill, to bill goods. \ An act or a bill conferring upon a chief executive, as a governor or mayor, large powers of appointment and removal of heads of departments or other subordinate officials.
ins birth (n.) The act or fact of coming into life, or of being born; -- generally applied to human beings; as, the birth of a son. \ (n.) Lineage; extraction; descent; sometimes, high birth; noble extraction. \ (n.) The condition to which a person is born; natural state or position; inherited disposition or tendency. \ (n.) The act of bringing forth, she had two children at a birth. \ (n.) That which is born; that which is produced, whether animal or vegetable. \ (n.) Origin; beginning, the birth of an empire. \ (n.) See Berth.
ins bit (v.) The part of a bridle, usually of iron, which is inserted in the mouth of a horse, and having appendages to which the reins are fastened. \ (v.) Fig.: Anything which curbs or restrains. \ (v. t.) To put a bridle upon; to put the bit in the mouth of. \ imp. & p. p. of Bite. \ (v.) A part of anything, such as may be bitten off or taken into the mouth; a morsel; a bite. Hence: A small piece of anything; a little; a mite. \ (v.) Somewhat; something, but not very great. \ (v.) A tool for boring, of various forms and sizes, usually turned by means of a brace or bitstock. See Bitstock. \ (v.) The part of a key which enters the lock and acts upon the bolt and tumblers. \ (v.) The cutting iron of a plane. \ (v.) In the Southern and Southwestern States, a small silver coin (as the real) formerly current; commonly, one worth about 12 1/2 cents; also, the sum of 12 1/2 cents. \ 3d sing. pr. of Bid, for biddeth. \ (imp.) of Bite \ of Bite \ (n.) In the British West Indies, a fourpenny piece, or groat.
ins blame v. to accuse; to hold responsible \ (v. t.) To censure; to express disapprobation of; to find fault with; to reproach. \ (v. t.) To bring reproach upon; to blemish. \ (v.) An expression of disapprobation fir something deemed to be wrong; imputation of fault; censure. \ (v.) That which is deserving of censure or disapprobation; culpability; fault; crime; sin. \ (v.) Hurt; injury.
ins blanket n. a cloth cover used to keep warm \ (a.) A heavy, loosely woven fabric, usually of wool, and having a nap, used in bed clothing; also, a similar fabric used as a robe; or any fabric used as a cover for a horse. \ (a.) A piece of rubber, felt, or woolen cloth, used in the tympan to make it soft and elastic. \ (a.) A streak or layer of blubber in whales. \ (v. t.) To cover with a blanket. \ (v. t.) To toss in a blanket by way of punishment. \ (v. t.) To take the wind out of the sails of (another vessel) by sailing to windward of her.
ins blind ad. not able to see \ (a.) Destitute of the sense of seeing, either by natural defect or by deprivation; without sight. \ (a.) Not having the faculty of discernment; destitute of intellectual light; unable or unwilling to understand or judge; as, authors are blind to their own defects. \ (a.) Undiscerning; undiscriminating; inconsiderate. \ (a.) Having such a state or condition as a thing would have to a person who is blind; not well marked or easily discernible; hidden; unseen; concealed, a blind path; a blind ditch. \ (a.) Involved; intricate; not easily followed or traced. \ (a.) Having no openings for light or passage, a blind wall; open only at one end, a blind alley; a blind gut. \ (a.) Unintelligible, or not easily intelligible, a blind passage in a book; illegible, blind writing. \ (a.) Abortive; failing to produce flowers or fruit, blind buds; blind flowers. \ (v. t.) To make blind; to deprive of sight or discernment. \ (v. t.) To deprive partially of vision; to make vision difficult for and painful to; to dazzle. \ (v. t.) To darken; to obscure to the eye or understanding; to conceal; to deceive. \ (v. t.) To cover with a thin coating of sand and fine gravel; as a road newly paved, in order that the joints between the stones may be filled. \ (n.) Something to hinder sight or keep out light; a screen; a cover; esp. a hinged screen or shutter for a window; a blinder for a horse. \ (n.) Something to mislead the eye or the understanding, or to conceal some covert deed or design; a subterfuge. \ (n.) A blindage. See Blindage. \ (n.) A halting place. \ (n.) Alt. of Blinde
ins block v. to stop something from being done; to prevent movement \ (v. t.) A piece of wood more or less bulky; a solid mass of wood, stone, etc., usually with one or more plane, or approximately plane, faces; as, a block on which a butcher chops his meat; a block by which to mount a horse; children's playing blocks \ (v. t.) The solid piece of wood on which condemned persons lay their necks when they are beheaded. \ (v. t.) The wooden mold on which hats, bonnets, are shaped. \ (v. t.) The pattern or shape of a hat. \ (v. t.) A large or long building divided into separate houses or shops, or a number of houses or shops built in contact with each other so as to form one building; a row of houses or shops. \ (v. t.) A square, or portion of a city inclosed by streets, whether occupied by buildings or not. \ (v. t.) A grooved pulley or sheave incased in a frame or shell which is provided with a hook, eye, or strap, by which it may be attached to an object. It is used to change the direction of motion, as in raising a heavy object that can not be conveniently reached, and also, when two or more such sheaves are compounded, to change the rate of motion, or to exert increased force; -- used especially in the rigging of ships, and in tackles. \ (v. t.) The perch on which a bird of prey is kept. \ (v. t.) Any obstruction, or cause of obstruction; a stop; a hindrance; an obstacle, a block in the way. \ (v. t.) A piece of box or other wood for engravers' work. \ (v. t.) A piece of hard wood (as mahogany or cherry) on which a stereotype or electrotype plate is mounted to make it type high. \ (v. t.) A blockhead; a stupid fellow; a dolt. \ (v. t.) A section of a railroad where the block system is used. See Block system, below. \ (n.) To obstruct so as to prevent passage or progress; to prevent passage from, through, or into, by obstructing the way; -- used both of persons and things; -- often followed by up, to block up a road or harbor. \ (n.) To secure or support by means of blocks; to secure, as two boards at their angles of intersection, by pieces of wood glued to each. \ (n.) To shape on, or stamp with, a block, to block a hat. \ (n.) In Australia, one of the large lots into which public land, when opened to settlers, is divided by the government surveyors. \ (n.) The position of a player or bat when guarding the wicket. \ (n.) A block hole. \ (n.) The popping crease.
ins blood n. red fluid in the body \ (n.) The fluid which circulates in the principal vascular system of animals, carrying nourishment to all parts of the body, and bringing away waste products to be excreted. See under Arterial. \ (n.) Relationship by descent from a common ancestor; consanguinity; kinship. \ (n.) Descent; lineage; especially, honorable birth; the highest royal lineage. \ (n.) Descent from parents of recognized breed; excellence or purity of breed. \ (n.) The fleshy nature of man. \ (n.) The shedding of blood; the taking of life, murder; manslaughter; destruction. \ (n.) A bloodthirsty or murderous disposition. \ (n.) Temper of mind; disposition; state of the passions; -- as if the blood were the seat of emotions. \ (n.) A man of fire or spirit; a fiery spark; a gay, showy man; a rake. \ (n.) The juice of anything, especially if red. \ (v. t.) To bleed. \ (v. t.) To stain, smear or wet, with blood. \ (v. t.) To give (hounds or soldiers) a first taste or sight of blood, as in hunting or war. \ (v. t.) To heat the blood of; to exasperate.
ins board (n.) A piece of timber sawed thin, and of considerable length and breadth as compared with the thickness, -- used for building, etc. \ (n.) A table to put food upon. \ (n.) Hence: What is served on a table as food; stated meals; provision; entertainment; -- usually as furnished for pay; as, to work for one's board; the price of board. \ (n.) A table at which a council or court is held. Hence: A council, convened for business, or any authorized assembly or meeting, public or private; a number of persons appointed or elected to sit in council for the management or direction of some public or private business or trust, the Board of Admiralty; a board of trade; a board of directors, trustees, commissioners, etc. \ (n.) A square or oblong piece of thin wood or other material used for some special purpose, a molding board; a board or surface painted or arranged for a game, a chessboard; a backgammon board. \ (n.) Paper made thick and stiff like a board, for book covers, etc.; pasteboard, to bind a book in boards. \ (n.) The stage in a theater, to go upon the boards, to enter upon the theatrical profession. \ (n.) The border or side of anything. \ (n.) The side of a ship. \ (n.) The stretch which a ship makes in one tack. \ (v. t.) To cover with boards or boarding, to board a house. \ (n.) To go on board of, or enter, as a ship, whether in a hostile or a friendly way. \ (n.) To enter, as a railway car. \ (n.) To furnish with regular meals, or with meals and lodgings, for compensation; to supply with daily meals. \ (n.) To place at board, to board one's horse at a livery stable. \ (v. i.) To obtain meals, or meals and lodgings, statedly for compensation, he boards at the hotel. \ (v. t.) To approach; to accost; to address; hence, to woo.
ins boil v. to heat a liquid until it becomes very hot \ (v.) To be agitated, or tumultuously moved, as a liquid by the generation and rising of bubbles of steam (or vapor), or of currents produced by heating it to the boiling point; to be in a state of ebullition; as, the water boils. \ (v.) To be agitated like boiling water, by any other cause than heat; to bubble; to effervesce, the boiling waves. \ (v.) To pass from a liquid to an aeriform state or vapor when heated, the water boils away. \ (v.) To be moved or excited with passion; to be hot or fervid, his blood boils with anger. \ (v.) To be in boiling water, as in cooking, the potatoes are boiling. \ (v. t.) To heat to the boiling point, or so as to cause ebullition, to boil water. \ (v. t.) To form, or separate, by boiling or evaporation, to boil sugar or salt. \ (v. t.) To subject to the action of heat in a boiling liquid so as to produce some specific effect, as cooking, cleansing, etc., to boil meat; to boil clothes. \ (v. t.) To steep or soak in warm water. \ (n.) Act or state of boiling. \ (n.) A hard, painful, inflamed tumor, which, on suppuration, discharges pus, mixed with blood, and discloses a small fibrous mass of dead tissue, called the core.
ins bone n. the hard material in the body \ (n.) The hard, calcified tissue of the skeleton of vertebrate animals, consisting very largely of calcic carbonate, calcic phosphate, and gelatine; as, blood and bone. \ (n.) One of the pieces or parts of an animal skeleton, a rib or a thigh bone; a bone of the arm or leg; also, any fragment of bony substance. (pl.) The frame or skeleton of the body. \ (n.) Anything made of bone, as a bobbin for weaving bone lace. \ (n.) Two or four pieces of bone held between the fingers and struck together to make a kind of music. \ (n.) Dice. \ (n.) Whalebone; hence, a piece of whalebone or of steel for a corset. \ (n.) Fig.: The framework of anything. \ (v. t.) To withdraw bones from the flesh of, as in cookery. \ (v. t.) To put whalebone into, to bone stays. \ (v. t.) To fertilize with bone. \ (v. t.) To steal; to take possession of. \ (v. t.) To sight along an object or set of objects, to see if it or they be level or in line, as in carpentry, masonry, and surveying.
ins bookshop (n.) A bookseller's shop.
ins bookstore (n.) A store where books are kept for sale; -- called in England a bookseller's shop.
ins boring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Bore \ (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, bores; as, the boring of cannon; the boring of piles and ship timbers by certain marine mollusks. \ (n.) A hole made by boring. \ (n.) The chips or fragments made by boring.
ins borrow v. to take as a loan \ (v. t.) To receive from another as a loan, with the implied or expressed intention of returning the identical article or its equivalent in kind; -- the opposite of lend. \ (v. t.) To take (one or more) from the next higher denomination in order to add it to the next lower; -- a term of subtraction when the figure of the subtrahend is larger than the corresponding one of the minuend. \ (v. t.) To copy or imitate; to adopt; as, to borrow the style, manner, or opinions of another. \ (v. t.) To feign or counterfeit. \ (v. t.) To receive; to take; to derive. \ (n.) Something deposited as security; a pledge; a surety; a hostage. \ (n.) The act of borrowing.
ins boss (n.) Any protuberant part; a round, swelling part or body; a knoblike process; as, a boss of wood. \ (n.) A protuberant ornament on any work, either of different material from that of the work or of the same, as upon a buckler or bridle; a stud; a knob; the central projection of a shield. See Umbilicus. \ (n.) A projecting ornament placed at the intersection of the ribs of ceilings, whether vaulted or flat, and in other situations. \ (n.) A wooden vessel for the mortar used in tiling or masonry, hung by a hook from the laths, or from the rounds of a ladder. \ (n.) The enlarged part of a shaft, on which a wheel is keyed, or at the end, where it is coupled to another. \ (n.) A swage or die used for shaping metals. \ (n.) A head or reservoir of water. \ (v. t.) To ornament with bosses; to stud. \ (n.) A master workman or superintendent; a director or manager; a political dictator.
ins bottom ad. the lowest part of something \ (n.) The lowest part of anything; the foot; as, the bottom of a tree or well; the bottom of a hill, a lane, or a page. \ (n.) The part of anything which is beneath the contents and supports them, as the part of a chair on which a person sits, the circular base or lower head of a cask or tub, or the plank floor of a ship's hold; the under surface. \ (n.) That upon which anything rests or is founded, in a literal or a figurative sense; foundation; groundwork. \ (n.) The bed of a body of water, as of a river, lake, sea. \ (n.) The fundament; the buttocks. \ (n.) An abyss. \ (n.) Low land formed by alluvial deposits along a river; low-lying ground; a dale; a valley. \ (n.) The part of a ship which is ordinarily under water; hence, the vessel itself; a ship. \ (n.) Power of endurance, a horse of a good bottom. \ (n.) Dregs or grounds; lees; sediment. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the bottom; fundamental; lowest; under, bottom rock; the bottom board of a wagon box; bottom prices. \ (v. t.) To found or build upon; to fix upon as a support; -- followed by on or upon. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a bottom, to bottom a chair. \ (v. t.) To reach or get to the bottom of. \ (v. i.) To rest, as upon an ultimate support; to be based or grounded; -- usually with on or upon. \ (v. i.) To reach or impinge against the bottom, so as to impede free action, as when the point of a cog strikes the bottom of a space between two other cogs, or a piston the end of a cylinder. \ (n.) A ball or skein of thread; a cocoon. \ (v. t.) To wind round something, as in making a ball of thread.
ins bow (v. t.) To cause to deviate from straightness; to bend; to inflect; to make crooked or curved. \ (v. t.) To exercise powerful or controlling influence over, figuratively; to turn; to incline. \ (v. t.) To bend or incline, as the head or body, in token of respect, gratitude, assent, homage, or condescension. \ (v. t.) To cause to bend down; to prostrate; to depress;/ to crush; to subdue. \ (v. t.) To express by bowing; as, to bow one's thanks. \ (v. i.) To bend; to curve. \ (v. i.) To stop. \ (v. i.) To bend the head, knee, or body, in token of reverence or submission; -- often with down. \ (v. i.) To incline the head in token of salutation, civility, or assent; to make bow. \ (n.) An inclination of the head, or a bending of the body, in token of reverence, respect, or submission; an obeisance, a bow of deep humility. \ (v. t.) Anything bent, or in the form of a curve, as the rainbow. \ (v. t.) A weapon made of a strip of wood, or other elastic material, with a cord connecting the two ends, by means of which an arrow is propelled. \ (v. t.) An ornamental knot, with projecting loops, formed by doubling a ribbon or string. \ (v. t.) The U-shaped piece which embraces the neck of an ox and fastens it to the yoke. \ (v. t.) An appliance consisting of an elastic rod, with a number of horse hairs stretched from end to end of it, used in playing on a stringed instrument. \ (v. t.) An arcograph. \ (v. t.) Any instrument consisting of an elastic rod, with ends connected by a string, employed for giving reciprocating motion to a drill, or for preparing and arranging the hair, fur, etc., used by hatters. \ (v. t.) A rude sort of quadrant formerly used for taking the sun's altitude at sea. \ (sing. or pl.) Two pieces of wood which form the arched forward part of a saddletree. \ (v. i.) To play (music) with a bow. \ (v. i. ) To manage the bow. \ (n.) The bending or rounded part of a ship forward; the stream or prow. \ (n.) One who rows in the forward part of a boat; the bow oar.
ins bowl (n.) A concave vessel of various forms (often approximately hemispherical), to hold liquids, etc. \ (n.) Specifically, a drinking vessel for wine or other spirituous liquors; hence, convivial drinking. \ (n.) The contents of a full bowl; what a bowl will hold. \ (n.) The hollow part of a thing; as, the bowl of a spoon. \ (n.) A ball of wood or other material used for rolling on a level surface in play; a ball of hard wood having one side heavier than the other, so as to give it a bias when rolled. \ (n.) An ancient game, popular in Great Britain, played with biased balls on a level plat of greensward. \ (n.) The game of tenpins or bowling. \ (v. t.) To roll, as a bowl or cricket ball. \ (v. t.) To roll or carry smoothly on, or as on, wheels, we were bowled rapidly along the road. \ (v. t.) To pelt or strike with anything rolled. \ (v. i.) To play with bowls. \ (v. i.) To roll a ball on a plane, as at cricket, bowls, etc. \ (v. i.) To move rapidly, smoothly, and like a ball, the carriage bowled along.
ins brain n. the control center of thought, emotions and body activity of all creatures \ (n.) The whitish mass of soft matter (the center of the nervous system, and the seat of consciousness and volition) which is inclosed in the cartilaginous or bony cranium of vertebrate animals. It is simply the anterior termination of the spinal cord, and is developed from three embryonic vesicles, whose cavities are connected with the central canal of the cord; the cavities of the vesicles become the central cavities, or ventricles, and the walls thicken unequally and become the three segments, the fore-, mid-, and hind-brain. \ (n.) The anterior or cephalic ganglion in insects and other invertebrates. \ (n.) The organ or seat of intellect; hence, the understanding. \ (n.) The affections; fancy; imagination. \ (v. t.) To dash out the brains of; to kill by beating out the brains. Hence, Fig.: To destroy; to put an end to; to defeat. \ (v. t.) To conceive; to understand.
ins brake imp. of Break. \ (n.) A fern of the genus Pteris, esp. the P. aquilina, common in almost all countries. It has solitary stems dividing into three principal branches. Less properly: Any fern. \ (n.) A thicket; a place overgrown with shrubs and brambles, with undergrowth and ferns, or with canes. \ (v. t.) An instrument or machine to break or bruise the woody part of flax or hemp so that it may be separated from the fiber. \ (v. t.) An extended handle by means of which a number of men can unite in working a pump, as in a fire engine. \ (v. t.) A baker's kneading though. \ (v. t.) A sharp bit or snaffle. \ (v. t.) A frame for confining a refractory horse while the smith is shoeing him; also, an inclosure to restrain cattle, horses, etc. \ (v. t.) That part of a carriage, as of a movable battery, or engine, which enables it to turn. \ (v. t.) An ancient engine of war analogous to the crossbow and ballista. \ (v. t.) A large, heavy harrow for breaking clods after plowing; a drag. \ (v. t.) A piece of mechanism for retarding or stopping motion by friction, as of a carriage or railway car, by the pressure of rubbers against the wheels, or of clogs or ratchets against the track or roadway, or of a pivoted lever against a wheel or drum in a machine. \ (v. t.) An apparatus for testing the power of a steam engine, or other motor, by weighing the amount of friction that the motor will overcome; a friction brake. \ (v. t.) A cart or carriage without a body, used in breaking in horses. \ (v. t.) An ancient instrument of torture. \ of Break
ins branch (n.) A shoot or secondary stem growing from the main stem, or from a principal limb or bough of a tree or other plant. \ (n.) Any division extending like a branch; any arm or part connected with the main body of thing; ramification; as, the branch of an antler; the branch of a chandelier; a branch of a river; a branch of a railway. \ (n.) Any member or part of a body or system; a distinct article; a section or subdivision; a department. \ (n.) One of the portions of a curve that extends outwards to an indefinitely great distance, the branches of an hyperbola. \ (n.) A line of family descent, in distinction from some other line or lines from the same stock; any descendant in such a line, the English branch of a family. \ (n.) A warrant or commission given to a pilot, authorizing him to pilot vessels in certain waters. \ (a.) Diverging from, or tributary to, a main stock, line, way, theme, etc., a branch vein; a branch road or line; a branch topic; a branch store. \ (v. i.) To shoot or spread in branches; to separate into branches; to ramify. \ (v. i.) To divide into separate parts or subdivision. \ (v. t.) To divide as into branches; to make subordinate division in. \ (v. t.) To adorn with needlework representing branches, flowers, or twigs.
ins brave ad. having no fear \ (superl.) Bold; courageous; daring; intrepid; -- opposed to cowardly; as, a brave man; a brave act. \ (superl.) Having any sort of superiority or excellence; -- especially such as in conspicuous. \ (superl.) Making a fine show or display. \ (n.) A brave person; one who is daring. \ (n.) Specifically, an Indian warrior. \ (n.) A man daring beyond discretion; a bully. \ (n.) A challenge; a defiance; bravado. \ (v. t.) To encounter with courage and fortitude; to set at defiance; to defy; to dare. \ (v. t.) To adorn; to make fine or showy.
ins breath (n.) The air inhaled and exhaled in respiration; air which, in the process of respiration, has parted with oxygen and has received carbonic acid, aqueous vapor, warmth, etc. \ (n.) The act of breathing naturally or freely; the power or capacity to breathe freely; as, I am out of breath. \ (n.) The power of respiration, and hence, life. \ (n.) Time to breathe; respite; pause. \ (n.) A single respiration, or the time of making it; a single act; an instant. \ (n.) Fig.: That which gives or strengthens life. \ (n.) A single word; the slightest effort; a trifle. \ (n.) A very slight breeze; air in gentle motion. \ (n.) Fragrance; exhalation; odor; perfume. \ (n.) Gentle exercise, causing a quicker respiration.
ins breathe v. to take air into the body and let it out again \ (v. i.) To respire; to inhale and exhale air; hence, to live. \ (v. i.) To take breath; to rest from action. \ (v. i.) To pass like breath; noiselessly or gently; to exhale; to emanate; to blow gently. \ (v. t.) To inhale and exhale in the process of respiration; to respire. \ (v. t.) To inject by breathing; to infuse; -- with into. \ (v. t.) To emit or utter by the breath; to utter softly; to whisper; as, to breathe a vow. \ (v. t.) To exhale; to emit, as breath, the flowers breathe odors or perfumes. \ (v. t.) To express; to manifest; to give forth. \ (v. t.) To act upon by the breath; to cause to sound by breathing. \ (v. t.) To promote free respiration in; to exercise. \ (v. t.) To suffer to take breath, or recover the natural breathing; to rest, to breathe a horse. \ (v. t.) To put out of breath; to exhaust. \ (v. t.) To utter without vocality, as the nonvocal consonants.
ins brick (n.) A block or clay tempered with water, sand, etc., molded into a regular form, usually rectangular, and sun-dried, or burnt in a kiln, or in a heap or stack called a clamp. \ (n.) Bricks, collectively, as designating that kind of material; as, a load of brick; a thousand of brick. \ (n.) Any oblong rectangular mass, a brick of maple sugar; a penny brick (of bread). \ (n.) A good fellow; a merry person, you 're a brick. \ (v. t.) To lay or pave with bricks; to surround, line, or construct with bricks. \ (v. t.) To imitate or counterfeit a brick wall on, as by smearing plaster with red ocher, making the joints with an edge tool, and pointing them.
ins bright ad. giving much light; strong and clear in color \ (v. i.) See Brite, v. i. \ (a.) Radiating or reflecting light; shedding or having much light; shining; luminous; not dark. \ (a.) Transmitting light; clear; transparent. \ (a.) Having qualities that render conspicuous or attractive, or that affect the mind as light does the eye; resplendent with charms; as, bright beauty. \ (a.) Having a clear, quick intellect; intelligent. \ (a.) Sparkling with wit; lively; vivacious; shedding cheerfulness and joy around; cheerful; cheery. \ (a.) Illustrious; glorious. \ (a.) Manifest to the mind, as light is to the eyes; evident; plain. \ (a.) Of brilliant color; of lively hue or appearance. \ (n.) Splendor; brightness. \ (adv.) Brightly. \ (v. t.) To be or become overripe, as wheat, barley, or hops.
ins brilliant (p. pr.) Sparkling with luster; glittering; very bright; as, a brilliant star. \ (p. pr.) Distinguished by qualities which excite admiration; splendid; shining, brilliant talents. \ (a.) A diamond or other gem of the finest cut, formed into faces and facets, so as to reflect and refract the light, by which it is rendered more brilliant. It has at the middle, or top, a principal face, called the table, which is surrounded by a number of sloping facets forming a bizet; below, it has a small face or collet, parallel to the table, connected with the girdle by a pavilion of elongated facets. It is thus distinguished from the rose diamond, which is entirely covered with facets on the surface, and is flat below. \ (a.) The smallest size of type used in England printing. \ (a.) A kind of cotton goods, figured on the weaving.
ins broad (superl.) Wide; extend in breadth, or from side to side; -- opposed to narrow; as, a broad street, a broad table; an inch broad. \ (superl.) Extending far and wide; extensive; vast, the broad expanse of ocean. \ (superl.) Extended, in the sense of diffused; open; clear; full. \ (superl.) Fig.: Having a large measure of any thing or quality; not limited; not restrained; -- applied to any subject, and retaining the literal idea more or less clearly, the precise meaning depending largely on the substantive. \ (superl.) Comprehensive; liberal; enlarged. \ (superl.) Plain; evident, a broad hint. \ (superl.) Free; unrestrained; unconfined. \ (superl.) Characterized by breadth. See Breadth. \ (superl.) Cross; coarse; indelicate, a broad compliment; a broad joke; broad humor. \ (superl.) Strongly marked, a broad Scotch accent. \ (n.) The broad part of anything, the broad of an oar. \ (n.) The spread of a river into a sheet of water; a flooded fen. \ (n.) A lathe tool for turning down the insides and bottoms of cylinders.
ins broadcast v. to send information, stories or music by radio or television; n. a radio or television program \ (n.) A casting or throwing seed in all directions, as from the hand in sowing. \ (a.) Cast or dispersed in all directions, as seed from the hand in sowing; widely diffused. \ (a.) Scattering in all directions (as a method of sowing); -- opposed to planting in hills, or rows. \ (adv.) So as to scatter or be scattered in all directions; so as to spread widely, or news from the press.
ins broken (p. p.) of Break \ (v. t.) Separated into parts or pieces by violence; divided into fragments; as, a broken chain or rope; a broken dish. \ (v. t.) Disconnected; not continuous; also, rough; uneven, a broken surface. \ (v. t.) Fractured; cracked; disunited; sundered; strained; apart, a broken reed; broken friendship. \ (v. t.) Made infirm or weak, by disease, age, or hardships. \ (v. t.) Subdued; humbled; contrite. \ (v. t.) Subjugated; trained for use, as a horse. \ (v. t.) Crushed and ruined as by something that destroys hope; blighted. \ (v. t.) Not carried into effect; not adhered to; violated, a broken promise, vow, or contract; a broken law. \ (v. t.) Ruined financially; incapable of redeeming promises made, or of paying debts incurred, a broken bank; a broken tradesman. \ (v. t.) Imperfectly spoken, as by a foreigner, broken English; imperfectly spoken on account of emotion, to say a few broken words at parting.
ins brush (n.) An instrument composed of bristles, or other like material, set in a suitable back or handle, as of wood, bone, or ivory, and used for various purposes, as in removing dust from clothes, laying on colors, etc. Brushes have different shapes and names according to their use; as, clothes brush, paint brush, tooth brush, etc. \ (n.) The bushy tail of a fox. \ (n.) A tuft of hair on the mandibles. \ (n.) Branches of trees lopped off; brushwood. \ (n.) A thicket of shrubs or small trees; the shrubs and small trees in a wood; underbrush. \ (n.) A bundle of flexible wires or thin plates of metal, used to conduct an electrical current to or from the commutator of a dynamo, electric motor, or similar apparatus. \ (n.) The act of brushing, to give one's clothes a brush; a rubbing or grazing with a quick motion; a light touch, we got a brush from the wheel as it passed. \ (n.) A skirmish; a slight encounter; a shock or collision, to have a brush with an enemy. \ (n.) A short contest, or trial, of speed. \ (n.) To apply a brush to, according to its particular use; to rub, smooth, clean, paint, etc., with a brush. \ (n.) To touch in passing, or to pass lightly over, as with a brush. \ (n.) To remove or gather by brushing, or by an act like that of brushing, or by passing lightly over, as wind; -- commonly with off. \ (v. i.) To move nimbly in haste; to move so lightly as scarcely to be perceived, to brush by. \ (n.) In Australia, a dense growth of vegetation in good soil, including shrubs and trees, mostly small.
ins burn v. to be on fire; to destroy or damage by fire \ (v. t.) To consume with fire; to reduce to ashes by the action of heat or fire; -- frequently intensified by up: as, to burn up wood. \ (v. t.) To injure by fire or heat; to change destructively some property or properties of, by undue exposure to fire or heat; to scorch; to scald; to blister; to singe; to char; to sear; as, to burn steel in forging; to burn one's face in the sun; the sun burns the grass. \ (v. t.) To perfect or improve by fire or heat; to submit to the action of fire or heat for some economic purpose; to destroy or change some property or properties of, by exposure to fire or heat in due degree for obtaining a desired residuum, product, or effect; to bake, to burn clay in making bricks or pottery; to burn wood so as to produce charcoal; to burn limestone for the lime. \ (v. t.) To make or produce, as an effect or result, by the application of fire or heat, to burn a hole; to burn charcoal; to burn letters into a block. \ (v. t.) To consume, injure, or change the condition of, as if by action of fire or heat; to affect as fire or heat does, to burn the mouth with pepper. \ (v. t.) To apply a cautery to; to cauterize. \ (v. t.) To cause to combine with oxygen or other active agent, with evolution of heat; to consume; to oxidize, a man burns a certain amount of carbon at each respiration; to burn iron in oxygen. \ (v. i.) To be of fire; to flame. \ (v. i.) To suffer from, or be scorched by, an excess of heat. \ (v. i.) To have a condition, quality, appearance, sensation, or emotion, as if on fire or excessively heated; to act or rage with destructive violence; to be in a state of lively emotion or strong desire, the face burns; to burn with fever. \ (v. i.) To combine energetically, copper burns in chlorine. \ (v. i.) In certain games, to approach near to a concealed object which is sought. \ (n.) A hurt, injury, or effect caused by fire or excessive or intense heat. \ (n.) The operation or result of burning or baking, as in brickmaking, they have a good burn. \ (n.) A disease in vegetables. See Brand, n., 6. \ (n.) A small stream.
ins burst v. to break open suddenly \ (imp. & p. p.) of Burst \ (v. i.) To fly apart or in pieces; of break open; to yield to force or pressure, especially to a sudden and violent exertion of force, or to pressure from within; to explode; as, the boiler had burst; the buds will burst in spring. \ (v. i.) To exert force or pressure by which something is made suddenly to give way; to break through obstacles or limitations; hence, to appear suddenly and unexpectedly or unaccountably, or to depart in such manner; -- usually with some qualifying adverb or preposition, as forth, out, away, into, upon, through, etc. \ (v. t.) To break or rend by violence, as by an overcharge or by strain or pressure, esp. from within; to force open suddenly, to burst a cannon; to burst a blood vessel; to burst open the doors. \ (v. t.) To break. \ (v. t.) To produce as an effect of bursting, to burst a hole through the wall. \ (n.) A sudden breaking forth; a violent rending; an explosion, a burst of thunder; a burst of applause; a burst of passion; a burst of inspiration. \ (n.) Any brief, violent exertion or effort; a spurt, a burst of speed. \ (n.) A sudden opening, as of landscape; a stretch; an expanse. \ (n.) A rupture or hernia; a breach.
ins bush (n.) A thicket, or place abounding in trees or shrubs; a wild forest. \ (n.) A shrub; esp., a shrub with branches rising from or near the root; a thick shrub or a cluster of shrubs. \ (n.) A shrub cut off, or a shrublike branch of a tree; as, bushes to support pea vines. \ (n.) A shrub or branch, properly, a branch of ivy (as sacred to Bacchus), hung out at vintners' doors, or as a tavern sign; hence, a tavern sign, and symbolically, the tavern itself. \ (n.) The tail, or brush, of a fox. \ (v. i.) To branch thickly in the manner of a bush. \ (v. t.) To set bushes for; to support with bushes, to bush peas. \ (v. t.) To use a bush harrow on (land), for covering seeds sown; to harrow with a bush, to bush a piece of land; to bush seeds into the ground. \ (n.) A lining for a hole to make it smaller; a thimble or ring of metal or wood inserted in a plate or other part of machinery to receive the wear of a pivot or arbor. \ (n.) A piece of copper, screwed into a gun, through which the venthole is bored. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a bush, or lining, to bush a pivot hole.
ins butterfly (n.) A general name for the numerous species of diurnal Lepidoptera.
ins button (n.) A knob; a small ball; a small, roundish mass. \ (n.) A catch, of various forms and materials, used to fasten together the different parts of dress, by being attached to one part, and passing through a slit, called a buttonhole, in the other; -- used also for ornament. \ (n.) A bud; a germ of a plant. \ (n.) A piece of wood or metal, usually flat and elongated, turning on a nail or screw, to fasten something, as a door. \ (n.) A globule of metal remaining on an assay cupel or in a crucible, after fusion. \ (n.) To fasten with a button or buttons; to inclose or make secure with buttons; -- often followed by up. \ (n.) To dress or clothe. \ (v. i.) To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will not button. \ Alt. of evil
ins cab (n.) A kind of close carriage with two or four wheels, usually a public vehicle. \ (n.) The covered part of a locomotive, in which the engineer has his station. \ (n.) A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37) pints.
ins cable (n.) A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes. It is made of hemp, of steel wire, or of iron links. \ (n.) A rope of steel wire, or copper wire, usually covered with some protecting or insulating substance; as, the cable of a suspension bridge; a telegraphic cable. \ (n.) A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex, rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; -- called also cable molding. \ (v. t.) To fasten with a cable. \ (v. t.) To ornament with cabling. See Cabling. \ (v. t. & i.) To telegraph by a submarine cable
ins cage (n.) A box or inclosure, wholly or partly of openwork, in wood or metal, used for confining birds or other animals. \ (n.) A place of confinement for malefactors \ (n.) An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; as, the cage of a staircase. \ (n.) A skeleton frame to limit the motion of a loose piece, as a ball valve. \ (n.) A wirework strainer, used in connection with pumps and pipes. \ (n.) The box, bucket, or inclosed platform of a lift or elevator; a cagelike structure moving in a shaft. \ (n.) The drum on which the rope is wound in a hoisting whim. \ (n.) The catcher's wire mask. \ (v. i.) To confine in, or as in, a cage; to shut up or confine.
ins campus (n.) The principal grounds of a college or school, between the buildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus.
ins candle (n.) A slender, cylindrical body of tallow, containing a wick composed of loosely twisted linen of cotton threads, and used to furnish light. \ (n.) That which gives light; a luminary.
ins capital n. the official center of a government; the city where a country's government is \ (n.) Of or pertaining to the head. \ (n.) Having reference to, or involving, the forfeiture of the head or life; affecting life; punishable with death; as, capital trials; capital punishment. \ (n.) First in importance; chief; principal. \ (n.) Chief, in a political sense, as being the seat of the general government of a state or nation, Washington and Paris are capital cities. \ (n.) Of first rate quality; excellent, a capital speech or song. \ (n.) The head or uppermost member of a column, pilaster, etc. It consists generally of three parts, abacus, bell (or vase), and necking. See these terms, and Column. \ (n.) The seat of government; the chief city or town in a country; a metropolis. \ (n.) Money, property, or stock employed in trade, manufactures, etc.; the sum invested or lent, as distinguished from the income or interest. See Capital stock, under Capital, a. \ (a.) That portion of the produce of industry, which may be directly employed either to support human beings or to assist in production. \ (a.) Anything which can be used to increase one's power or influence. \ (a.) An imaginary line dividing a bastion, ravelin, or other work, into two equal parts. \ (a.) A chapter, or section, of a book. \ (a.) See Capital letter, a.
ins care v. to like; to protect; to feel worry or interest \ (n.) A burdensome sense of responsibility; trouble caused by onerous duties; anxiety; concern; solicitude. \ (n.) Charge, oversight, or management, implying responsibility for safety and prosperity. \ (n.) Attention or heed; caution; regard; heedfulness; watchfulness; as, take care; have a care. \ (n.) The object of watchful attention or anxiety. \ (n.) To be anxious or solicitous; to be concerned; to have regard or interest; -- sometimes followed by an objective of measure.
ins carefully (adv.) In a careful manner.
ins carpenter (n.) An artificer who works in timber; a framer and builder of houses, ships, etc.
ins cash (n.) A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paid out; a money box. \ (n.) Ready money; especially, coin or specie; but also applied to bank notes, drafts, bonds, or any paper easily convertible into money \ (n.) Immediate or prompt payment in current funds; as, to sell goods for cash; to make a reduction in price for cash. \ (v. t.) To pay, or to receive, cash for; to exchange for money, cash a note or an order. \ (v. t.) To disband. \ (n.sing & pl.) A Chinese coin.
ins cast (imp. & p. p.) of Cast \ (v. t.) To send or drive by force; to throw; to fling; to hurl; to impel. \ (v. t.) To direct or turn, as the eyes. \ (v. t.) To drop; to deposit; as, to cast a ballot. \ (v. t.) To throw down, as in wrestling. \ (v. t.) To throw up, as a mound, or rampart. \ (v. t.) To throw off; to eject; to shed; to lose. \ (v. t.) To bring forth prematurely; to slink. \ (v. t.) To throw out or emit; to exhale. \ (v. t.) To cause to fall; to reflect, to cast a ray upon a screen; to cast light upon a subject. \ (v. t.) To impose; to bestow; to rest. \ (v. t.) To dismiss; to discard; to cashier. \ (v. t.) To compute; to reckon; to calculate, to cast a horoscope. \ (v. t.) To contrive; to plan. \ (v. t.) To defeat in a lawsuit; to decide against; to convict, to be cast in damages. \ (v. t.) To turn (the balance or scale); to overbalance; hence, to make preponderate; to decide, a casting voice. \ (v. t.) To form into a particular shape, by pouring liquid metal or other material into a mold; to fashion; to found, to cast bells, stoves, bullets. \ (v. t.) To stereotype or electrotype. \ (v. t.) To fix, distribute, or allot, as the parts of a play among actors; also to assign (an actor) for a part. \ (v. i.) To throw, as a line in angling, esp, with a fly hook. \ (v. i.) To turn the head of a vessel around from the wind in getting under weigh. \ (v. i.) To consider; to turn or revolve in the mind; to plan, to cast about for reasons. \ (v. i.) To calculate; to compute. \ (v. i.) To receive form or shape in a mold. \ (v. i.) To warp; to become twisted out of shape. \ (v. i.) To vomit. \ 3d pres. of Cast, for Casteth. \ (n.) The act of casting or throwing; a throw. \ (n.) The thing thrown. \ (n.) The distance to which a thing is or can be thrown. \ (n.) A throw of dice, a chance or venture. \ (n.) That which is throw out or off, shed, or ejected, the skin of an insect, the refuse from a hawk's stomach, the excrement of a earthworm. \ (n.) The act of casting in a mold. \ (n.) An impression or mold, taken from a thing or person; amold; a pattern. \ (n.) That which is formed in a mild; esp. a reproduction or copy, as of a work of art, in bronze or plaster, etc.; a casting. \ (n.) Form; appearence; mien; air; style, a peculiar cast of countenance. \ (n.) A tendency to any color; a tinge; a shade. \ (n.) A chance, opportunity, privilege, or advantage; specifically, an opportunity of riding; a lift. \ (n.) The assignment of parts in a play to the actors. \ (n.) A flight or a couple or set of hawks let go at one time from the hand. \ (n.) A stoke, touch, or trick. \ (n.) A motion or turn, as of the eye; direction; look; glance; squint. \ (n.) A tube or funnel for conveying metal into a mold. \ (n.) Four; that is, as many as are thrown into a vessel at once in counting herrings, etc; a warp. \ (n.) Contrivance; plot, design.
ins castle (n.) A fortified residence, especially that of a prince or nobleman; a fortress. \ (n.) Any strong, imposing, and stately mansion. \ (n.) A small tower, as on a ship, or an elephant's back. \ (n.) A piece, made to represent a castle, used in the game of chess; a rook. \ (v. i.) To move the castle to the square next to king, and then the king around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purpose of covering the king.
ins cause v. to make happen; n. the thing or person that produces a result \ (v.) That which produces or effects a result; that from which anything proceeds, and without which it would not exist. \ (v.) That which is the occasion of an action or state; ground; reason; motive; as, cause for rejoicing. \ (v.) Sake; interest; advantage. \ (v.) A suit or action in court; any legal process by which a party endeavors to obtain his claim, or what he regards as his right; case; ground of action. \ (v.) Any subject of discussion or debate; matter; question; affair in general. \ (v.) The side of a question, which is espoused, advocated, and upheld by a person or party; a principle which is advocated; that which a person or party seeks to attain. \ (n.) To effect as an agent; to produce; to be the occasion of; to bring about; to bring into existence; to make; -- usually followed by an infinitive, sometimes by that with a finite verb. \ (v. i.) To assign or show cause; to give a reason; to make excuse. \ (conj.) Abbreviation of Because.
ins ceiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ceil \ (v. t.) The inside lining of a room overhead; the under side of the floor above; the upper surface opposite to the floor. \ (v. t.) The lining or finishing of any wall or other surface, with plaster, thin boards, etc.; also, the work when done. \ (v. t.) The inner planking of a vessel.
ins cent (n.) A hundred; as, ten per cent, the proportion of ten parts in a hundred. \ (n.) A United States coin, the hundredth part of a dollar, formerly made of copper, now of copper, tin, and zinc. \ (n.) An old game at cards, supposed to be like piquet; -- so called because 100 points won the game.
ins centimeter (n.) Alt. of Centimetre
ins central (a.) Relating to the center; situated in or near the center or middle; containing the center; of or pertaining to the parts near the center; equidistant or equally accessible from certain points. \ (n.) Alt. of Centrale
ins century n. one hundred years \ (n.) A hundred; as, a century of sonnets; an aggregate of a hundred things. \ (n.) A period of a hundred years, this event took place over two centuries ago. \ (n.) A division of the Roman people formed according to their property, for the purpose of voting for civil officers. \ (n.) One of sixty companies into which a legion of the army was divided. It was Commanded by a centurion.
ins certainly (adv.) Without doubt or question; unquestionably.
ins chain (n.) A series of links or rings, usually of metal, connected, or fitted into one another, used for various purposes, as of support, of restraint, of ornament, of the exertion and transmission of mechanical power, etc. \ (n.) That which confines, fetters, or secures, as a chain; a bond; as, the chains of habit. \ (n.) A series of things linked together; or a series of things connected and following each other in succession, a chain of mountains; a chain of events or ideas. \ (n.) An instrument which consists of links and is used in measuring land. \ (n.) Iron links bolted to the side of a vessel to bold the dead-eyes connected with the shrouds; also, the channels. \ (n.) The warp threads of a web. \ (v. t.) To fasten, bind, or connect with a chain; to fasten or bind securely, as with a chain, to chain a bulldog. \ (v. t.) To keep in slavery; to enslave. \ (v. t.) To unite closely and strongly. \ (v. t.) To measure with the chain. \ (v. t.) To protect by drawing a chain across, as a harbor.
ins champion n. the best; the winner \ (v. t.) To furnish with a champion; to attend or defend as champion; to support or maintain; to protect.
ins chapter (n.) A division of a book or treatise; as, Genesis has fifty chapters. \ (n.) An assembly of monks, or of the prebends and other clergymen connected with a cathedral, conventual, or collegiate church, or of a diocese, usually presided over by the dean. \ (n.) A community of canons or canonesses. \ (n.) A bishop's council. \ (n.) A business meeting of any religious community. \ (n.) An organized branch of some society or fraternity as of the Freemasons. \ (n.) A meeting of certain organized societies or orders. \ (n.) A chapter house. \ (n.) A decretal epistle. \ (n.) A location or compartment. \ (v. t.) To divide into chapters, as a book. \ (v. t.) To correct; to bring to book, i. e., to demand chapter and verse.
ins character (n.) A distinctive mark; a letter, figure, or symbol. \ (n.) Style of writing or printing; handwriting; the peculiar form of letters used by a particular person or people; as, an inscription in the Runic character. \ (n.) The peculiar quality, or the sum of qualities, by which a person or a thing is distinguished from others; the stamp impressed by nature, education, or habit; that which a person or thing really is; nature; disposition. \ (n.) Strength of mind; resolution; independence; individuality, he has a great deal of character. \ (n.) Moral quality; the principles and motives that control the life, a man of character; his character saves him from suspicion. \ (n.) Quality, position, rank, or capacity; quality or conduct with respect to a certain office or duty, in the miserable character of a slave; in his character as a magistrate; her character as a daughter. \ (n.) The estimate, individual or general, put upon a person or thing; reputation, a man's character for truth and veracity; to give one a bad character. \ (n.) A written statement as to behavior, competency, etc., given to a servant. \ (n.) A unique or extraordinary individuality; a person characterized by peculiar or notable traits; a person who illustrates certain phases of character, Randolph was a character; Caesar is a great historical character. \ (n.) One of the persons of a drama or novel. \ (v. t.) To engrave; to inscribe. \ (v. t.) To distinguish by particular marks or traits; to describe; to characterize.
ins charge v. to accuse someone of something, usually a crime; n. a statement in which someone is accused of something
ins check (n.) A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such a menace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it were any other piece, expose it to immediate capture. A king so menaced is said to be in check, and must be made safe at the next move. \ (n.) A condition of interrupted or impeded progress; arrest; stop; delay; as, to hold an enemy in check. \ (n.) Whatever arrests progress, or limits action; an obstacle, guard, restraint, or rebuff. \ (n.) A mark, certificate, or token, by which, errors may be prevented, or a thing or person may be identified, checks placed against items in an account; a check given for baggage; a return check on a railroad. \ (n.) A written order directing a bank or banker to pay money as therein stated. See Bank check, below. \ (n.) A woven or painted design in squares resembling the patten of a checkerboard; one of the squares of such a design; also, cloth having such a figure. \ (n.) The forsaking by a hawk of its proper game to follow other birds. \ (n.) Small chick or crack. \ (v. t.) To make a move which puts an adversary's piece, esp. his king, in check; to put in check. \ (v. t.) To put a sudden restraint upon; to stop temporarily; to hinder; to repress; to curb. \ (v. t.) To verify, to guard, to make secure, by means of a mark, token, or other check; to distinguish by a check; to put a mark against (an item) after comparing with an original or a counterpart in order to secure accuracy, to check an account; to check baggage. \ (v. t.) To chide, rebuke, or reprove. \ (v. t.) To slack or ease off, as a brace which is too stiffly extended. \ (v. t.) To make checks or chinks in; to cause to crack, the sun checks timber. \ (v. i.) To make a stop; to pause; -- with at. \ (v. i.) To clash or interfere. \ (v. i.) To act as a curb or restraint. \ (v. i.) To crack or gape open, as wood in drying; or to crack in small checks, as varnish, paint, etc. \ (v. i.) To turn, when in pursuit of proper game, and fly after other birds. \ (a.) Checkered; designed in checks.
ins cheek (n.) The side of the face below the eye. \ (n.) The cheek bone. \ (n.) Those pieces of a machine, or of any timber, or stone work, which form corresponding sides, or which are similar and in pair; as, the cheeks (jaws) of a vise; the cheeks of a gun carriage, etc. \ (n.) The branches of a bridle bit. \ (n.) A section of a flask, so made that it can be moved laterally, to permit the removal of the pattern from the mold; the middle part of a flask. \ (n.) Cool confidence; assurance; impudence. \ (v. t.) To be impudent or saucy to.
ins cheer v. to shout approval or praise \ (n.) The face; the countenance or its expression. \ (n.) Feeling; spirit; state of mind or heart. \ (n.) Gayety; mirth; cheerfulness; animation. \ (n.) That which promotes good spirits or cheerfulness; provisions prepared for a feast; entertainment; as, a table loaded with good cheer. \ (n.) A shout, hurrah, or acclamation, expressing joy enthusiasm, applause, favor, etc. \ (v. t.) To cause to rejoice; to gladden; to make cheerful; -- often with up. \ (v. t.) To infuse life, courage, animation, or hope, into; to inspirit; to solace or comfort. \ (v. t.) To salute or applaud with cheers; to urge on by cheers, to cheer hounds in a chase. \ (v. i.) To grow cheerful; to become gladsome or joyous; -- usually with up. \ (v. i.) To be in any state or temper of mind. \ (v. i.) To utter a shout or shouts of applause, triumph, etc.
ins cherry (n.) A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes the plum) bearing a fleshy drupe with a bony stone \ (n.) The common garden cherry (Prunus Cerasus), of which several hundred varieties are cultivated for the fruit, some of which are, the begarreau, blackheart, black Tartarian, oxheart, morelle or morello, May-duke (corrupted from Medoc in France). \ (n.) The wild cherry; as, Prunus serotina (wild black cherry), valued for its timber; P. Virginiana (choke cherry), an American shrub which bears astringent fruit; P. avium and P. Padus, European trees (bird cherry). \ (n.) The fruit of the cherry tree, a drupe of various colors and flavors. \ (n.) The timber of the cherry tree, esp. of the black cherry, used in cabinetmaking, etc. \ (n.) A peculiar shade of red, like that of a cherry. \ (a.) Like a red cherry in color; ruddy; blooming, a cherry lip; cherry cheeks.
ins chest (n.) A large box of wood, or other material, having, like a trunk, a lid, but no covering of skin, leather, or cloth. \ (n.) A coffin. \ (n.) The part of the body inclosed by the ribs and breastbone; the thorax. \ (n.) A case in which certain goods, as tea, opium, etc., are transported; hence, the quantity which such a case contains. \ (n.) A tight receptacle or box, usually for holding gas, steam, liquids; as, the steam chest of an engine; the wind chest of an organ. \ (v. i.) To deposit in a chest; to hoard. \ (v. i.) To place in a coffin. \ (n.) Strife; contention; controversy.
ins choice (n.) Act of choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from two or more things that which is preferred; the determination of the mind in preferring one thing to another; election. \ (n.) The power or opportunity of choosing; option. \ (n.) Care in selecting; judgment or skill in distinguishing what is to be preferred, and in giving a preference; discrimination. \ (n.) A sufficient number to choose among. \ (n.) The thing or person chosen; that which is approved and selected in preference to others; selection. \ (n.) The best part; that which is preferable. \ (superl.) Worthly of being chosen or preferred; select; superior; precious; valuable. \ (superl.) Preserving or using with care, as valuable; frugal; -- used with of; as, to be choice of time, or of money. \ (superl.) Selected with care, and due attention to preference; deliberately chosen.
ins cigar (n.) A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking.
ins cigarette (n.) A little cigar; a little fine tobacco rolled in paper for smoking.
ins citizen n. a person who is a member of a country by birth or by law \ (n.) One who enjoys the freedom and privileges of a city; a freeman of a city, as distinguished from a foreigner, or one not entitled to its franchises. \ (n.) An inhabitant of a city; a townsman. \ (n.) A person, native or naturalized, of either sex, who owes allegiance to a government, and is entitled to reciprocal protection from it. \ (n.) One who is domiciled in a country, and who is a citizen, though neither native nor naturalized, in such a sense that he takes his legal status from such country. \ (a.) Having the condition or qualities of a citizen, or of citizens; as, a citizen soldiery. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of a city; characteristic of citizens; effeminate; luxurious.
ins claim v. to say something as a fact \ (v./.) To ask for, or seek to obtain, by virtue of authority, right, or supposed right; to challenge as a right; to demand as due. \ (v./.) To proclaim. \ (v./.) To call or name. \ (v./.) To assert; to maintain. \ (v. i.) To be entitled to anything; to deduce a right or title; to have a claim. \ (n.) A demand of a right or supposed right; a calling on another for something due or supposed to be due; an assertion of a right or fact. \ (n.) A right to claim or demand something; a title to any debt, privilege, or other thing in possession of another; also, a title to anything which another should give or concede to, or confer on, the claimant. \ (n.) The thing claimed or demanded; that (as land) to which any one intends to establish a right; as a settler's claim; a miner's claim. \ (n.) A loud call.
ins cleaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Clean \ (n.) The act of making clean. \ (n.) The afterbirth of cows, ewes, etc.
ins clearly (adv.) In a clear manner.
ins clerk (n.) A clergyman or ecclesiastic. \ (n.) A man who could read; a scholar; a learned person; a man of letters. \ (n.) A parish officer, being a layman who leads in reading the responses of the Episcopal church service, and otherwise assists in it. \ (n.) One employed to keep records or accounts; a scribe; an accountant; as, the clerk of a court; a town clerk. \ (n.) An assistant in a shop or store.
ins clinic (n.) One confined to the bed by sickness. \ (n.) One who receives baptism on a sick bed. \ (n.) A school, or a session of a school or class, in which medicine or surgery is taught by the examination and treatment of patients in the presence of the pupils. \ (v. i.) Of or pertaining to a bed, especially, a sick bed. \ (v. i.) Of or pertaining to a clinic, or to the study of disease in the living subject.
ins cloth n. a material made from plants, chemicals, animal hair and other substances \ (n.) A fabric made of fibrous material (or sometimes of wire, as in wire cloth); commonly, a woven fabric of cotton, woolen, or linen, adapted to be made into garments; specifically, woolen fabrics, as distinguished from all others. \ (n.) The dress; raiment. [Obs.] See Clothes. \ (n.) The distinctive dress of any profession, especially of the clergy; hence, the clerical profession.
ins coal n. a solid black substance used as fuel \ (n.) A thoroughly charred, and extinguished or still ignited, fragment from wood or other combustible substance; charcoal. \ (n.) A black, or brownish black, solid, combustible substance, dug from beds or veins in the earth to be used for fuel, and consisting, like charcoal, mainly of carbon, but more compact, and often affording, when heated, a large amount of volatile matter. \ (v. t.) To burn to charcoal; to char. \ (v. t.) To mark or delineate with charcoal. \ (v. t.) To supply with coal; as, to coal a steamer. \ (v. i.) To take in coal, the steamer coaled at Southampton.
ins coast n. land on the edge of the ocean \ (v. t.) The side of a thing. \ (v. t.) The exterior line, limit, or border of a country; frontier border. \ (v. t.) The seashore, or land near it. \ (n.) To draw or keep near; to approach. \ (n.) To sail by or near the shore. \ (n.) To sail from port to port in the same country. \ (n.) To slide down hill; to slide on a sled, upon snow or ice. \ (v. t.) To draw near to; to approach; to keep near, or by the side of. \ (v. t.) To sail by or near; to follow the coast line of. \ (v. t.) To conduct along a coast or river bank.
ins cocoa Alt. of Cocoa palm \ (n.) A preparation made from the seeds of the chocolate tree, and used in making, a beverage; also the beverage made from cocoa or cocoa shells.
ins coin (n.) A quoin; a corner or external angle; a wedge. See Coigne, and Quoin. \ (n.) A piece of metal on which certain characters are stamped by government authority, making it legally current as money; -- much used in a collective sense. \ (n.) That which serves for payment or recompense. \ (v. t.) To make of a definite fineness, and convert into coins, as a mass of metal; to mint; to manufacture; as, to coin silver dollars; to coin a medal. \ (v. t.) To make or fabricate; to invent; to originate, to coin a word. \ (v. t.) To acquire rapidly, as money; to make. \ (v. i.) To manufacture counterfeit money.
ins collect v. to bring or gather together in one place; to demand and receive ("collect taxes") \ (v. t.) To gather into one body or place; to assemble or bring together; to obtain by gathering. \ (v. t.) To demand and obtain payment of, as an account, or other indebtedness; as, to collect taxes. \ (v. t.) To infer from observed facts; to conclude from premises. \ (v. i.) To assemble together, the people collected in a crowd; to accumulate, snow collects in banks. \ (v. i.) To infer; to conclude. \ (v. t.) A short, comprehensive prayer, adapted to a particular day, occasion, or condition, and forming part of a liturgy.
ins collection (n.) The act or process of collecting or of gathering; as, the collection of specimens. \ (n.) That which is collected \ (n.) A gathering or assemblage of objects or of persons. \ (n.) A gathering of money for charitable or other purposes, as by passing a contribution box for freewill offerings. \ (n.) That which is obtained in payment of demands. \ (n.) An accumulation of any substance. \ (n.) The act of inferring or concluding from premises or observed facts; also, that which is inferred. \ (n.) The jurisdiction of a collector of excise.
ins comfort (v. t.) To make strong; to invigorate; to fortify; to corroborate. \ (v. t.) To assist or help; to aid. \ (v. t.) To impart strength and hope to; to encourage; to relieve; to console; to cheer. \ (n.) Assistance; relief; support. \ (n.) Encouragement; solace; consolation in trouble; also, that which affords consolation. \ (n.) A state of quiet enjoyment; freedom from pain, want, or anxiety, whatever contributes to such a condition. \ (n.) A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable. \ (n.) Unlawful support, countenance, or encouragement; as, to give aid and comfort to the enemy.
ins comfortable (a.) Strong; vigorous; valiant. \ (a.) Serviceable; helpful. \ (a.) Affording or imparting comfort or consolation; able to comfort; cheering; as, a comfortable hope. \ (a.) In a condition of comfort; having comforts; not suffering or anxious; hence, contented; cheerful, to lead a comfortable life. \ (a.) Free, or comparatively free, from pain or distress; -- used of a sick person. \ (n.) A stuffed or quilted coverlet for a bed; a comforter; a comfort.
ins comic (a.) Relating to comedy, as distinct from tragedy. \ (a.) Causing mirth; ludicrous. \ (n.) A comedian.
ins common ad. usual; same for all ("a common purpose") \ (v.) Belonging or relating equally, or similarly, to more than one; as, you and I have a common interest in the property. \ (v.) Belonging to or shared by, affecting or serving, all the members of a class, considered together; general; public, properties common to all plants; the common schools; the Book of Common Prayer. \ (v.) Often met with; usual; frequent; customary. \ (v.) Not distinguished or exceptional; inconspicuous; ordinary; plebeian; -- often in a depreciatory sense. \ (v.) Profane; polluted. \ (v.) Given to habits of lewdness; prostitute. \ (n.) The people; the community. \ (n.) An inclosed or uninclosed tract of ground for pleasure, for pasturage, etc., the use of which belongs to the public; or to a number of persons. \ (n.) The right of taking a profit in the land of another, in common either with the owner or with other persons; -- so called from the community of interest which arises between the claimant of the right and the owner of the soil, or between the claimants and other commoners entitled to the same right. \ (v. i.) To converse together; to discourse; to confer. \ (v. i.) To participate. \ (v. i.) To have a joint right with others in common ground. \ (v. i.) To board together; to eat at a table in common.
ins companion (n.) One who accompanies or is in company with another for a longer or shorter period, either from choice or casually; one who is much in the company of, or is associated with, another or others; an associate; a comrade; a consort; a partner. \ (n.) A knight of the lowest rank in certain orders; as, a companion of the Bath. \ (n.) A fellow; -- in contempt. \ (n.) A skylight on an upper deck with frames and sashes of various shapes, to admit light to a cabin or lower deck. \ (n.) A wooden hood or penthouse covering the companion way; a companion hatch. \ (v. t.) To be a companion to; to attend on; to accompany. \ (v. t.) To qualify as a companion; to make equal.
ins compare v. to examine what is different or similar \ (v. t.) To examine the character or qualities of, as of two or more persons or things, for the purpose of discovering their resemblances or differences; to bring into comparison; to regard with discriminating attention. \ (v. t.) To represent as similar, for the purpose of illustration; to liken. \ (v. t.) To inflect according to the degrees of comparison; to state positive, comparative, and superlative forms of; as, most adjectives of one syllable are compared by affixing "- er" and "-est" to the positive form, black, blacker, blackest; those of more than one syllable are usually compared by prefixing "more" and "most", or "less" and "least", to the positive, beautiful, more beautiful, most beautiful. \ (v. i.) To be like or equal; to admit, or be worthy of, comparison, his later work does not compare with his earlier. \ (v. i.) To vie; to assume a likeness or equality. \ (n.) Comparison. \ (n.) Illustration by comparison; simile. \ (v. t.) To get; to procure; to obtain; to acquire
ins complain (v. i.) To give utterance to expression of grief, pain, censure, regret. etc.; to lament; to murmur; to find fault; -- commonly used with of. Also, to creak or squeak, as a timber or wheel. \ (v. i.) To make a formal accusation; to make a charge. \ (v. t.) To lament; to bewail.
ins complete ad. having all parts; ended or finished \ (a.) Filled up; with no part or element lacking; free from deficiency; entire; perfect; consummate. \ (a.) Finished; ended; concluded; completed; as, the edifice is complete. \ (a.) Having all the parts or organs which belong to it or to the typical form; having calyx, corolla, stamens, and pistil. \ (v. t.) To bring to a state in which there is no deficiency; to perfect; to consummate; to accomplish; to fulfill; to finish, to complete a task, or a poem; to complete a course of education.
ins completely (adv.) In a complete manner; fully.
ins computer n. an electronic machine for storing and organizing information, and for communicating with others \ (n.) One who computes.
ins concert (v. t.) To plan together; to settle or adjust by conference, agreement, or consultation. \ (v. t.) To plan; to devise; to arrange. \ (v. i.) To act in harmony or conjunction; to form combined plans. \ (v. t.) Agreement in a design or plan; union formed by mutual communication of opinions and views; accordance in a scheme; harmony; simultaneous action. \ (v. t.) Musical accordance or harmony; concord. \ (v. t.) A musical entertainment in which several voices or instruments take part.
ins condition n. something declared necessary to complete an agreement; a person's health \ (n.) Mode or state of being; state or situation with regard to external circumstances or influences, or to physical or mental integrity, health, strength, etc.; predicament; rank; position, estate. \ (n.) Essential quality; property; attribute. \ (n.) Temperament; disposition; character. \ (n.) That which must exist as the occasion or concomitant of something else; that which is requisite in order that something else should take effect; an essential qualification; stipulation; terms specified. \ (n.) A clause in a contract, or agreement, which has for its object to suspend, to defeat, or in some way to modify, the principal obligation; or, in case of a will, to suspend, revoke, or modify a devise or bequest. It is also the case of a future uncertain event, which may or may not happen, and on the occurrence or non-occurrence of which, the accomplishment, recission, or modification of an obligation or testamentary disposition is made to depend. \ (v. i.) To make terms; to stipulate. \ (v. i.) To impose upon an object those relations or conditions without which knowledge and thought are alleged to be impossible. \ (n.) To invest with, or limit by, conditions; to burden or qualify by a condition; to impose or be imposed as the condition of. \ (n.) To contract; to stipulate; to agree. \ (n.) To put under conditions; to require to pass a new examination or to make up a specified study, as a condition of remaining in one's class or in college; as, to condition a student who has failed in some branch of study. \ (n.) To test or assay, as silk (to ascertain the proportion of moisture it contains). \ (n.) train; acclimate.
ins contain v. to hold; to include \ (v. t.) To hold within fixed limits; to comprise; to include; to inclose; to hold. \ (v. t.) To have capacity for; to be able to hold; to hold; to be equivalent to; as, a bushel contains four pecks. \ (v. t.) To put constraint upon; to restrain; to confine; to keep within bounds. \ (v. i.) To restrain desire; to live in continence or chastity.
ins content (a.) Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited by that which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied; contented; at rest. \ (n.) That which is contained; the thing or things held by a receptacle or included within specified limits; as, the contents of a cask or bale or of a room; the contents of a book. \ (n.) Power of containing; capacity; extent; size. \ (n.) Area or quantity of space or matter contained within certain limits, solid contents; superficial contents. \ (a.) To satisfy the desires of; to make easy in any situation; to appease or quiet; to gratify; to please. \ (a.) To satisfy the expectations of; to pay; to requite. \ (n.) Rest or quietness of the mind in one's present condition; freedom from discontent; satisfaction; contentment; moderate happiness. \ (n.) Acquiescence without examination. \ (n.) That which contents or satisfies; that which if attained would make one happy. \ (n.) An expression of assent to a bill or motion; an affirmative vote; also, a member who votes "Content.".
ins continue v. to go on doing or being \ (v. i.) To remain in a given place or condition; to remain in connection with; to abide; to stay. \ (v. i.) To be permanent or durable; to endure; to last. \ (v. i.) To be steadfast or constant in any course; to persevere; to persist; to keep up or maintain a particular condition, course, or series of actions; as, the army continued to advance. \ (v. t.) To unite; to connect. \ (v. t.) To protract or extend in duration; to preserve or persist in; to cease not. \ (v. t.) To carry onward or extend; to prolong or produce; to add to or draw out in length. \ (v. t.) To retain; to suffer or cause to remain, the trustees were continued; also, to suffer to live.
ins control v. to direct; to have power over \ (n.) A duplicate book, register, or account, kept to correct or check another account or register; a counter register. \ (n.) That which serves to check, restrain, or hinder; restraint. \ (n.) Power or authority to check or restrain; restraining or regulating influence; superintendence; government; as, children should be under parental control. \ (v. t.) To check by a counter register or duplicate account; to prove by counter statements; to confute. \ (v. t.) To exercise restraining or governing influence over; to check; to counteract; to restrain; to regulate; to govern; to overpower. \ (n.) The complete apparatus used to control a mechanism or machine in operation, as a flying machine in flight; \ (n.) the mechanism controlling the rudders and ailerons. \ (n.) Any of the physical factors determining the climate of any particular place, as latitude,distribution of land and water, altitude, exposure, prevailing winds, permanent high- or low-barometric-pressure areas, ocean currents, mountain barriers, soil, and vegetation.
ins conversation (n.) General course of conduct; behavior. \ (n.) Familiar intercourse; intimate fellowship or association; close acquaintance. \ (n.) Commerce; intercourse; traffic. \ (n.) Colloquial discourse; oral interchange of sentiments and observations; informal dialogue. \ (n.) Sexual intercourse; as, criminal conversation.
ins cooking (p. pr & vb. n.) of Cook
ins copy v. to make something exactly like another; n. something made to look exactly like another \ (n.) An abundance or plenty of anything. \ (n.) An imitation, transcript, or reproduction of an original work; as, a copy of a letter, an engraving, a painting, or a statue. \ (n.) An individual book, or a single set of books containing the works of an author, a copy of the Bible; a copy of the works of Addison. \ (n.) That which is to be imitated, transcribed, or reproduced; a pattern, model, or example, his virtues are an excellent copy for imitation. \ (n.) Manuscript or printed matter to be set up in type, the printers are calling for more copy. \ (n.) A writing paper of a particular size. Same as Bastard. See under Paper. \ (n.) Copyhold; tenure; lease. \ (n.) To make a copy or copies of; to write; print, engrave, or paint after an original; to duplicate; to reproduce; to transcribe, to copy a manuscript, inscription, design, painting, etc.; -- often with out, sometimes with off. \ (n.) To imitate; to attempt to resemble, as in manners or course of life. \ (v. i.) To make a copy or copies; to imitate. \ (v. i.) To yield a duplicate or transcript, the letter did not copy well.
ins corn n. a food grain \ (n.) A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toes, by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome. \ (n.) A single seed of certain plants, as wheat, rye, barley, and maize; a grain. \ (n.) The various farinaceous grains of the cereal grasses used for food, maize, oats. \ (n.) The plants which produce corn, when growing in the field; the stalks and ears, or the stalks, ears, and seeds, after reaping and before thrashing. \ (n.) A small, hard particle; a grain. \ (v. t.) To preserve and season with salt in grains; to sprinkle with salt; to cure by salting; now, specifically, to salt slightly in brine or otherwise; as, to corn beef; to corn a tongue. \ (v. t.) To form into small grains; to granulate, to corn gunpowder. \ (v. t.) To feed with corn or (in Sctland) oats, to corn horses. \ (v. t.) To render intoxicated, ale strong enough to corn one.
ins correct ad. true; free from mistakes; v. to change to what is right \ (a.) Set right, or made straight; hence, conformable to truth, rectitude, or propriety, or to a just standard; not faulty or imperfect; free from error; as, correct behavior; correct views. \ (v. t.) To make right; to bring to the standard of truth, justice; to rectify, to correct manners or principles. \ (v. t.) To remove or retrench the faults or errors of; to amend; to set right, to correct the proof (that is, to mark upon the margin the changes to be made, or to make in the type the changes so marked). \ (v. t.) To bring back, or attempt to bring back, to propriety in morals; to reprove or punish for faults or deviations from moral rectitude; to chastise; to discipline, a child should be corrected for lying. \ (v. t.) To counteract the qualities of one thing by those of another; -- said of whatever is wrong or injurious, to correct the acidity of the stomach by alkaline preparations.
ins cost n. the price or value of something ("The cost of the book is five dollars."); v. to be valued at ("The book costs five dollars.") \ (n.) A rib; a side; a region or coast. \ (n.) See Cottise. \ (imp. & p. p.) of Cost \ (v. t.) To require to be given, expended, or laid out therefor, as in barter, purchase, acquisition, etc.; to cause the cost, expenditure, relinquishment, or loss of; as, the ticket cost a dollar; the effort cost his life. \ (v. t.) To require to be borne or suffered; to cause. \ (v. t.) The amount paid, charged, or engaged to be paid, for anything bought or taken in barter; charge; expense; hence, whatever, as labor, self-denial, suffering, is requisite to secure benefit. \ (v. t.) Loss of any kind; detriment; pain; suffering. \ (v. t.) Expenses incurred in litigation.
ins cotton n. a material made from a plant of the same name \ (n.) A soft, downy substance, resembling fine wool, consisting of the unicellular twisted hairs which grow on the seeds of the cotton plant. Long-staple cotton has a fiber sometimes almost two inches long; short-staple, from two thirds of an inch to an inch and a half. \ (n.) The cotton plant. See Cotten plant, below. \ (n.) Cloth made of cotton. \ (v. i.) To rise with a regular nap, as cloth does. \ (v. i.) To go on prosperously; to succeed. \ (v. i.) To unite; to agree; to make friends; -- usually followed by with. \ (v. i.) To take a liking to; to stick to one as cotton; -- used with to.
ins couple (a.) That which joins or links two things together; a bond or tie; a coupler. \ (a.) Two of the same kind connected or considered together; a pair; a brace. \ (a.) A male and female associated together; esp., a man and woman who are married or betrothed. \ (a.) See Couple-close. \ (a.) One of the pairs of plates of two metals which compose a voltaic battery; -- called a voltaic couple or galvanic couple. \ (a.) Two rotations, movements, etc., which are equal in amount but opposite in direction, and acting along parallel lines or around parallel axes. \ (v.) To link or tie, as one thing to another; to connect or fasten together; to join. \ (v.) To join in wedlock; to marry. \ (v. i.) To come together as male and female; to copulate.
ins courage (n.) The heart; spirit; temper; disposition. \ (n.) Heart; inclination; desire; will. \ (n.) That quality of mind which enables one to encounter danger and difficulties with firmness, or without fear, or fainting of heart; valor; boldness; resolution.
ins course (n.) The act of moving from one point to another; progress; passage. \ (n.) The ground or path traversed; track; way. \ (n.) Motion, considered as to its general or resultant direction or to its goal; line progress or advance. \ (n.) Progress from point to point without change of direction; any part of a progress from one place to another, which is in a straight line, or on one direction; as, a ship in a long voyage makes many courses; a course measured by a surveyor between two stations; also, a progress without interruption or rest; a heat, one course of a race. \ (n.) Motion considered with reference to manner; or derly progress; procedure in a certain line of thought or action, the course of an argument. \ (n.) Customary or established sequence of events; recurrence of events according to natural laws. \ (n.) Method of procedure; manner or way of conducting; conduct; behavior. \ (n.) A series of motions or acts arranged in order; a succession of acts or practices connectedly followed, a course of medicine; a course of lectures on chemistry. \ (n.) The succession of one to another in office or duty; order; turn. \ (n.) That part of a meal served at one time, with its accompaniments. \ (n.) A continuous level range of brick or stones of the same height throughout the face or faces of a building. \ (n.) The lowest sail on any mast of a square-rigged vessel, the fore course, main course, etc. \ (n.) The menses. \ (v. t.) To run, hunt, or chase after; to follow hard upon; to pursue. \ (v. t.) To cause to chase after or pursue game, to course greyhounds after deer. \ (v. t.) To run through or over. \ (v. i.) To run as in a race, or in hunting; to pursue the sport of coursing, the sportsmen coursed over the flats of Lancashire. \ (v. i.) To move with speed; to race, the blood courses through the veins.
ins court n. where trials take place; where judges make decisions about law \ (n.) An inclosed space; a courtyard; an uncovered area shut in by the walls of a building, or by different building; also, a space opening from a street and nearly surrounded by houses; a blind alley. \ (n.) The residence of a sovereign, prince, nobleman, or ether dignitary; a palace. \ (n.) The collective body of persons composing the retinue of a sovereign or person high in authority; all the surroundings of a sovereign in his regal state. \ (n.) Any formal assembling of the retinue of a sovereign; as, to hold a court. \ (n.) Attention directed to a person in power; conduct or address designed to gain favor; courtliness of manners; civility; compliment; flattery. \ (n.) The hall, chamber, or place, where justice is administered. \ (n.) The persons officially assembled under authority of law, at the appropriate time and place, for the administration of justice; an official assembly, legally met together for the transaction of judicial business; a judge or judges sitting for the hearing or trial of causes. \ (n.) A tribunal established for the administration of justice. \ (n.) The judge or judges; as distinguished from the counsel or jury, or both. \ (n.) The session of a judicial assembly. \ (n.) Any jurisdiction, civil, military, or ecclesiastical. \ (n.) A place arranged for playing the game of tennis, one of the divisions of a tennis court. \ (v. t.) To endeavor to gain the favor of by attention or flattery; to try to ingratiate one's self with. \ (v. t.) To endeavor to gain the affections of; to seek in marriage; to woo. \ (v. t.) To attempt to gain; to solicit; to seek. \ (v. t.) To invite by attractions; to allure; to attract. \ (v. i.) To play the lover; to woo, to go courting.
ins cousin (n.) One collaterally related more remotely than a brother or sister; especially, the son or daughter of an uncle or aunt. \ (n.) A title formerly given by a king to a nobleman, particularly to those of the council. In English writs, etc., issued by the crown, it signifies any earl. \ (n.) Allied; akin.
ins cowboy (n.) A cattle herder; a drover; specifically, one of an adventurous class of herders and drovers on the plains of the Western and Southwestern United States. \ (n.) One of the marauders who, in the Revolutionary War infested the neutral ground between the American and British lines, and committed depredations on the Americans.
ins crash v. to fall violently; to hit with great force \ (v. t. ) To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise and violence. \ (v. i.) To make a loud, clattering sound, as of many things falling and breaking at once; to break in pieces with a harsh noise. \ (v. i.) To break with violence and noise; as, the chimney in falling crashed through the roof. \ (n.) A loud, sudden, confused sound, as of many things falling and breaking at once. \ (n.) Ruin; failure; sudden breaking down, as of a business house or a commercial enterprise. \ (n.) Coarse, heavy, narrow linen cloth, used esp. for towels.
ins crazy (a.) Characterized by weakness or feebleness; decrepit; broken; falling to decay; shaky; unsafe. \ (a.) Broken, weakened, or dissordered in intellect; shattered; demented; deranged. \ (a.) Inordinately desirous; foolishly eager.
ins cream (n.) The rich, oily, and yellowish part of milk, which, when the milk stands unagitated, rises, and collects on the surface. It is the part of milk from which butter is obtained. \ (n.) The part of any liquor that rises, and collects on the surface. \ (n.) A delicacy of several kinds prepared for the table from cream, etc., or so as to resemble cream. \ (n.) A cosmetic; a creamlike medicinal preparation. \ (n.) The best or choicest part of a thing; the quintessence; as, the cream of a jest or story; the cream of a collection of books or pictures. \ (v. t.) To skim, or take off by skimming, as cream. \ (v. t.) To take off the best or choicest part of. \ (v. t.) To furnish with, or as with, cream. \ (v. i.) To form or become covered with cream; to become thick like cream; to assume the appearance of cream; hence, to grow stiff or formal; to mantle.
ins create v. to make; to give life or form to \ (a.) Created; composed; begotten. \ (v. t.) To bring into being; to form out of nothing; to cause to exist. \ (v. t.) To effect by the agency, and under the laws, of causation; to be the occasion of; to cause; to produce; to form or fashion; to renew. \ (v. t.) To invest with a new form, office, or character; to constitute; to appoint; to make; as, to create one a peer.
ins creation (n.) The act of creating or causing to exist. Specifically, the act of bringing the universe or this world into existence. \ (n.) That which is created; that which is produced or caused to exist, as the world or some original work of art or of the imagination; nature. \ (n.) The act of constituting or investing with a new character; appointment; formation.
ins crew n. a group of people working together \ (n.) The Manx shearwater. \ (n.) A company of people associated together; an assemblage; a throng. \ (n.) The company of seamen who man a ship, vessel, or at; the company belonging to a vessel or a boat. \ (n.) In an extended sense, any small body of men associated for a purpose; a gang; as (Naut.), the carpenter's crew; the boatswain's crew. \ imp. of Crow \ (imp.) of Crow
ins cross v. to go from one side to another; to go across
ins crowd n. a large number of people gathered in one place \ (v. t.) To push, to press, to shove. \ (v. t.) To press or drive together; to mass together. \ (v. t.) To fill by pressing or thronging together; hence, to encumber by excess of numbers or quantity. \ (v. t.) To press by solicitation; to urge; to dun, to treat discourteously or unreasonably. \ (v. i.) To press together or collect in numbers; to swarm; to throng. \ (v. i.) To urge or press forward; to force one's self; as, a man crowds into a room. \ (v. t.) A number of things collected or closely pressed together; also, a number of things adjacent to each other. \ (v. t.) A number of persons congregated or collected into a close body without order; a throng. \ (v. t.) The lower orders of people; the populace; the vulgar; the rabble; the mob. \ (n.) An ancient instrument of music with six strings; a kind of violin, being the oldest known stringed instrument played with a bow. \ (v. t.) To play on a crowd; to fiddle.
ins crowded (imp. & p. p.) of Crowd
ins crown of Crow \ p. p. of Crow. \ (n.) A wreath or garland, or any ornamental fillet encircling the head, especially as a reward of victory or mark of honorable distinction; hence, anything given on account of, or obtained by, faithful or successful effort; a reward. \ (n.) A royal headdress or cap of sovereignty, worn by emperors, kings, princes, etc. \ (n.) The person entitled to wear a regal or imperial crown; the sovereign; -- with the definite article. \ (n.) Imperial or regal power or dominion; sovereignty. \ (n.) Anything which imparts beauty, splendor, honor, dignity, or finish. \ (n.) Highest state; acme; consummation; perfection. \ (n.) The topmost part of anything; the summit. \ (n.) The topmost part of the head (see Illust. of Bird.); that part of the head from which the hair descends toward the sides and back; also, the head or brain. \ (n.) The part of a hat above the brim. \ (n.) The part of a tooth which projects above the gum, the top or grinding surface of a tooth. \ (n.) The vertex or top of an arch; -- applied generally to about one third of the curve, but in a pointed arch to the apex only. \ (n.) Same as Corona. \ (n.) That part of an anchor where the arms are joined to the shank. \ (n.) The rounding, or rounded part, of the deck from a level line. \ (n.) The bights formed by the several turns of a cable. \ (n.) The upper range of facets in a rose diamond. \ (n.) The dome of a furnace. \ (n.) The area inclosed between two concentric perimeters. \ (n.) A round spot shaved clean on the top of the head, as a mark of the clerical state; the tonsure. \ (n.) A size of writing paper. See under Paper. \ (n.) A coin stamped with the image of a crown,a denomination of money; as, the English crown, a silver coin of the value of five shillings sterling, or a little more than $1.20; the Danish or Norwegian crown, a money of account, etc., worth nearly twenty-seven cents. \ (n.) An ornaments or decoration representing a crown, the paper is stamped with a crown. \ (n.) To cover, decorate, or invest with a crown, to invest with royal dignity and power. \ (n.) To bestow something upon as a mark of honor, or recompense; to adorn; to dignify. \ (n.) To form the topmost or finishing part of; to complete; to consummate; to perfect. \ (n.) To cause to round upward; to make anything higher at the middle than at the edges, as the face of a machine pulley. \ (n.) To effect a lodgment upon, as upon the crest of the glacis, or the summit of the breach.
ins culture n. all the beliefs, traditions and arts of a group or population \ (n.) The act or practice of cultivating, or of preparing the earth for seed and raising crops by tillage; as, the culture of the soil. \ (n.) The act of, or any labor or means employed for, training, disciplining, or refining the moral and intellectual nature of man, the culture of the mind. \ (n.) The state of being cultivated; result of cultivation; physical improvement; enlightenment and discipline acquired by mental and moral training; civilization; refinement in manners and taste. \ (v. t.) To cultivate; to educate. \ (n.) The cultivation of bacteria or other organisms in artificial media or under artificial conditions. \ (n.) The collection of organisms resulting from such a cultivation. \ (n.) Those details of a map, collectively, which do not represent natural features of the area delineated, as names and the symbols for towns, roads, houses, bridges, meridians, and parallels.
ins curtain (n.) A hanging screen intended to darken or conceal, and admitting of being drawn back or up, and reclosed at pleasure; esp., drapery of cloth or lace hanging round a bed or at a window; in theaters, and like places, a movable screen for concealing the stage. \ (n.) That part of the rampart and parapet which is between two bastions or two gates. See Illustrations of Ravelin and Bastion. \ (n.) That part of a wall of a building which is between two pavilions, towers, etc. \ (n.) A flag; an ensign; -- in contempt. \ (v. t.) To inclose as with curtains; to furnish with curtains.
ins curve (a.) Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curve surface. \ (a.) A bending without angles; that which is bent; a flexure, a curve in a railway or canal. \ (a.) A line described according to some low, and having no finite portion of it a straight line. \ (a.) To bend; to crook, to curve a line; to curve a pipe; to cause to swerve from a straight course, to curve a ball in pitching it. \ (v. i.) To bend or turn gradually from a given direction, the road curves to the right.
ins custom n. a long-established belief or activity of a people \ (n.) Frequent repetition of the same act; way of acting common to many; ordinary manner; habitual practice; usage; method of doing or living. \ (n.) Habitual buying of goods; practice of frequenting, as a shop, manufactory, etc., for making purchases or giving orders; business support. \ (n.) Long-established practice, considered as unwritten law, and resting for authority on long consent; usage. See Usage, and Prescription. \ (n.) Familiar aquaintance; familiarity. \ (v. t.) To make familiar; to accustom. \ (v. t.) To supply with customers. \ (v. i.) To have a custom. \ (n.) The customary toll, tax, or tribute. \ (n.) Duties or tolls imposed by law on commodities, imported or exported. \ (v. t.) To pay the customs of.
ins customer (n.) One who collect customs; a toll gatherer. \ (n.) One who regularly or repeatedly makes purchases of a trader; a purchaser; a buyer. \ (n.) A person with whom a business house has dealings; as, the customers of a bank. \ (n.) A peculiar person; -- in an indefinite sense, a queer customer; an ugly customer. \ (n.) A lewd woman.
ins cycle (n.) An imaginary circle or orbit in the heavens; one of the celestial spheres. \ (n.) An interval of time in which a certain succession of events or phenomena is completed, and then returns again and again, uniformly and continually in the same order; a periodical space of time marked by the recurrence of something peculiar; as, the cycle of the seasons, or of the year. \ (n.) An age; a long period of time. \ (n.) An orderly list for a given time; a calendar. \ (n.) The circle of subjects connected with the exploits of the hero or heroes of some particular period which have served as a popular theme for poetry, as the legend of Arthur and the knights of the Round Table, and that of Charlemagne and his paladins. \ (n.) One entire round in a circle or a spire, a cycle or set of leaves. \ (n.) A bicycle or tricycle, or other light velocipede. \ (v. i.) To pass through a cycle of changes; to recur in cycles. \ (v. i.) To ride a bicycle, tricycle, or other form of cycle. \ (n.) A series of operations in which heat is imparted to (or taken away from) a working substance which by its expansion gives up a part of its internal energy in the form of mechanical work (or being compressed increases its internal energy) and is again brought back to its original state. \ (n.) A complete positive and negative wave of an alternating current; one period. The number of cycles (per second) is a measure of the frequency of an alternating current.
ins daily (a.) Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as, daily labor; a daily bulletin. \ (n.) A publication which appears regularly every day, the morning dailies. \ (adv.) Every day; day by day, a thing happens daily.
ins damage v. to cause injury or destruction; n. harm; hurt or injury, usually to things \ (n.) Injury or harm to person, property, or reputation; an inflicted loss of value; detriment; hurt; mischief. \ (n.) The estimated reparation in money for detriment or injury sustained; a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to one party, for a wrong or injury actually done to him by another. \ (n.) To ocassion damage to the soudness, goodness, or value of; to hurt; to injure; to impair. \ (v. i.) To receive damage or harm; to be injured or impaired in soudness or value; as. some colors in /oth damage in sunlight.
ins dancer (n.) One who dances or who practices dancing.
ins dancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dance \ (p. a. & vb. n.) from Dance.
ins danger n. a strong chance of suffering injury, damage or loss \ (n.) Authority; jurisdiction; control. \ (n.) Power to harm; subjection or liability to penalty. \ (n.) Exposure to injury, loss, pain, or other evil; peril; risk; insecurity. \ (n.) Difficulty; sparingness. \ (n.) Coyness; disdainful behavior. \ (v. t.) To endanger.
ins dare (v. i.) To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to be bold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture. \ (v. t.) To have courage for; to attempt courageously; to venture to do or to undertake. \ (v. t.) To challenge; to provoke; to defy. \ (n.) The quality of daring; venturesomeness; boldness; dash. \ (n.) Defiance; challenge. \ (v. i.) To lurk; to lie hid. \ (v. t.) To terrify; to daunt. \ (n.) A small fish; the dace.
ins deaf ad. not able to hear \ (a.) Wanting the sense of hearing, either wholly or in part; unable to perceive sounds; hard of hearing; as, a deaf man. \ (a.) Unwilling to hear or listen; determinedly inattentive; regardless; not to be persuaded as to facts, argument, or exhortation; -- with to, deaf to reason. \ (a.) Deprived of the power of hearing; deafened. \ (a.) Obscurely heard; stifled; deadened. \ (a.) Decayed; tasteless; dead, a deaf nut; deaf corn. \ (v. t.) To deafen.
ins deal v. to have to do with ("The talks will deal with the problem of pollution."); to buy or sell ("Her company deals in plastic.") \ (n.) A part or portion; a share; hence, an indefinite quantity, degree, or extent; as, a deal of time and trouble; a deal of cold. \ (n.) The process of dealing cards to the players; also, the portion disturbed. \ (n.) Distribution; apportionment. \ (n.) An arrangement to attain a desired result by a combination of interested parties; -- applied to stock speculations and political bargains. \ (n.) The division of a piece of timber made by sawing; a board or plank; particularly, a board or plank of fir or pine above seven inches in width, and exceeding six feet in length. If narrower than this, it is called a batten; if shorter, a deal end. \ (n.) Wood of the pine or fir, a floor of deal. \ (n.) To divide; to separate in portions, to give in portions; to distribute; to bestow successively; -- sometimes with out. \ (n.) Specifically: To distribute, as cards, to the players at the commencement of a game, to deal the cards; to deal one a jack. \ (v. i.) To make distribution; to share out in portions, as cards to the players. \ (v. i.) To do a distributing or retailing business, as distinguished from that of a manufacturer or producer; to traffic; to trade; to do business, he deals in flour. \ (v. i.) To act as an intermediary in business or any affairs; to manage; to make arrangements; -- followed by between or with. \ (v. i.) To conduct one's self; to behave or act in any affair or towards any one; to treat. \ (v. i.) To contend (with); to treat (with), by way of opposition, check, or correction, he has turbulent passions to deal with.
ins decision (n.) Cutting off; division; detachment of a part. \ (n.) The act of deciding; act of settling or terminating, as a controversy, by giving judgment on the matter at issue; determination, as of a question or doubt; settlement; conclusion. \ (n.) An account or report of a conclusion, especially of a legal adjudication or judicial determination of a question or cause; as, a decision of arbitrators; a decision of the Supreme Court. \ (n.) The quality of being decided; prompt and fixed determination; unwavering firmness, to manifest great decision.
ins deeply (adv.) At or to a great depth; far below the surface; as, to sink deeply. \ (adv.) Profoundly; thoroughly; not superficially; in a high degree; intensely, deeply skilled in ethics. \ (adv.) Very; with a tendency to darkness of color. \ (adv.) Gravely; with low or deep tone, a deeply toned instrument. \ (adv.) With profound skill; with art or intricacy, a deeply laid plot or intrigue.
ins defend v. to guard or fight against attack; to protect \ (v. t.) To ward or fend off; to drive back or away; to repel. \ (v. t.) To prohibit; to forbid. \ (v. t.) To repel danger or harm from; to protect; to secure against; attack; to maintain against force or argument; to uphold; to guard; as, to defend a town; to defend a cause; to defend character; to defend the absent; -- sometimes followed by from or against, to defend one's self from, or against, one's enemies. \ (v. t.) To deny the right of the plaintiff in regard to (the suit, or the wrong charged); to oppose or resist, as a claim at law; to contest, as a suit.
ins defense (n.) Alt. of Defence \ (v. t.) To furnish with defenses; to fortify.
ins degree n. a measure of temperature \ (n.) A step, stair, or staircase. \ (n.) One of a series of progressive steps upward or downward, in quality, rank, acquirement, and the like; a stage in progression; grade; gradation; as, degrees of vice and virtue; to advance by slow degrees; degree of comparison. \ (n.) The point or step of progression to which a person has arrived; rank or station in life; position. \ (n.) Measure of advancement; quality; extent, tastes differ in kind as well as in degree. \ (n.) Grade or rank to which scholars are admitted by a college or university, in recognition of their attainments, the degree of bachelor of arts, master, doctor, etc. \ (n.) A certain distance or remove in the line of descent, determining the proximity of blood; one remove in the chain of relationship, a relation in the third or fourth degree. \ (n.) Three figures taken together in numeration; thus, 140 is one degree, 222,140 two degrees. \ (n.) State as indicated by sum of exponents; more particularly, the degree of a term is indicated by the sum of the exponents of its literal factors, a2b3c is a term of the sixth degree. The degree of a power, or radical, is denoted by its index, that of an equation by the greatest sum of the exponents of the unknown quantities in any term, ax4 + bx2 = c, and mx2y2 + nyx = p, are both equations of the fourth degree. \ (n.) A 360th part of the circumference of a circle, which part is taken as the principal unit of measure for arcs and angles. The degree is divided into 60 minutes and the minute into 60 seconds. \ (n.) A division, space, or interval, marked on a mathematical or other instrument, as on a thermometer. \ (n.) A line or space of the staff.
ins deliver (v. t.) To set free from restraint; to set at liberty; to release; to liberate, as from control; to give up; to free; to save; to rescue from evil actual or feared; -- often with from or out of; as, to deliver one from captivity, or from fear of death. \ (v. t.) To give or transfer; to yield possession or control of; to part with (to); to make over; to commit; to surrender; to resign; -- often with up or over, to or into. \ (v. t.) To make over to the knowledge of another; to communicate; to utter; to speak; to impart. \ (v. t.) To give forth in action or exercise; to discharge, to deliver a blow; to deliver a broadside, or a ball. \ (v. t.) To free from, or disburden of, young; to relieve of a child in childbirth; to bring forth; -- often with of. \ (v. t.) To discover; to show. \ (v. t.) To deliberate. \ (v. t.) To admit; to allow to pass. \ (v. t.) Free; nimble; sprightly; active.
ins demand v. to ask by ordering; to ask with force \ (v. t.) To ask or call for with authority; to claim or seek from, as by authority or right; to claim, as something due; to call for urgently or peremptorily; as, to demand a debt; to demand obedience. \ (v. t.) To inquire authoritatively or earnestly; to ask, esp. in a peremptory manner; to question. \ (v. t.) To require as necessary or useful; to be in urgent need of; hence, to call for, the case demands care. \ (v. t.) To call into court; to summon. \ (v. i.) To make a demand; to inquire. \ (v. t.) The act of demanding; an asking with authority; a peremptory urging of a claim; a claiming or challenging as due; requisition, the demand of a creditor; a note payable on demand. \ (v. t.) Earnest inquiry; question; query. \ (v. t.) A diligent seeking or search; manifested want; desire to possess; request, a demand for certain goods; a person's company is in great demand. \ (v. t.) That which one demands or has a right to demand; thing claimed as due; claim, demands on an estate. \ (v. t.) The asking or seeking for what is due or claimed as due. \ (v. t.) The right or title in virtue of which anything may be claimed, to hold a demand against a person. \ (v. t.) A thing or amount claimed to be due.
ins dentist (n.) One whose business it is to clean, extract, or repair natural teeth, and to make and insert artificial ones; a dental surgeon.
ins deny v. to declare that something is not true; to refuse a request \ (v. t.) To declare not to be true; to gainsay; to contradict; -- opposed to affirm, allow, or admit. \ (v. t.) To refuse (to do something or to accept something); to reject; to decline; to renounce. \ (v. t.) To refuse to grant; to withhold; to refuse to gratify or yield to; as, to deny a request. \ (v. t.) To disclaim connection with, responsibility for, and the like; to refuse to acknowledge; to disown; to abjure; to disavow. \ (v. i.) To answer in /// negative; to declare an assertion not to be true.
ins depend v. to need help and support \ (v. i.) To hang down; to be sustained by being fastened or attached to something above. \ (v. i.) To hang in suspense; to be pending; to be undetermined or undecided; as, a cause depending in court. \ (v. i.) To rely for support; to be conditioned or contingent; to be connected with anything, as a cause of existence, or as a necessary condition; -- followed by on or upon, formerly by of. \ (v. i.) To trust; to rest with confidence; to rely; to confide; to be certain; -- with on or upon, we depend on the word or assurance of our friends; we depend on the mail at the usual hour. \ (v. i.) To serve; to attend; to act as a dependent or retainer. \ (v. i.) To impend.
ins depth (n.) The quality of being deep; deepness; perpendicular measurement downward from the surface, or horizontal measurement backward from the front; as, the depth of a river; the depth of a body of troops. \ (n.) Profoundness; extent or degree of intensity; abundance; completeness, depth of knowledge, or color. \ (n.) Lowness, depth of sound. \ (n.) That which is deep; a deep, or the deepest, part or place; the deep; the middle part, the depth of night, or of winter. \ (n.) The number of simple elements which an abstract conception or notion includes; the comprehension or content. \ (n.) A pair of toothed wheels which work together. \ (n.) The perpendicular distance from the chord to the farthest point of an arched surface.
ins describe v. to give a word picture of something; to give details of something \ (v. t.) To represent by drawing; to draw a plan of; to delineate; to trace or mark out; as, to describe a circle by the compasses; a torch waved about the head in such a way as to describe a circle. \ (v. t.) To represent by words written or spoken; to give an account of; to make known to others by words or signs, the geographer describes countries and cities. \ (v. t.) To distribute into parts, groups, or classes; to mark off; to class. \ (v. i.) To use the faculty of describing; to give a description, Milton describes with uncommon force and beauty.
ins desert n. a dry area of land \ (n.) That which is deserved; the reward or the punishment justly due; claim to recompense, usually in a good sense; right to reward; merit. \ (n.) A deserted or forsaken region; a barren tract incapable of supporting population, as the vast sand plains of Asia and Africa are destitute and vegetation. \ (n.) A tract, which may be capable of sustaining a population, but has been left unoccupied and uncultivated; a wilderness; a solitary place. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a desert; forsaken; without life or cultivation; unproductive; waste; barren; wild; desolate; solitary; as, they landed on a desert island. \ (v. t.) To leave (especially something which one should stay by and support); to leave in the lurch; to abandon; to forsake; -- implying blame, except sometimes when used of localities, to desert a friend, a principle, a cause, one's country. \ (v. t.) To abandon (the service) without leave; to forsake in violation of duty; to abscond from, to desert the army; to desert one's colors. \ (v. i.) To abandon a service without leave; to quit military service without permission, before the expiration of one's term; to abscond.
ins design v. to plan or create plans for \ (n.) To draw preliminary outline or main features of; to sketch for a pattern or model; to delineate; to trace out; to draw. \ (n.) To mark out and exhibit; to designate; to indicate; to show; to point out; to appoint. \ (n.) To create or produce, as a work of art; to form a plan or scheme of; to form in idea; to invent; to project; to lay out in the mind; as, a man designs an essay, a poem, a statue, or a cathedral. \ (n.) To intend or purpose; -- usually with for before the remote object, but sometimes with to. \ (v. i.) To form a design or designs; to plan. \ (n.) A preliminary sketch; an outline or pattern of the main features of something to be executed, as of a picture, a building, or a decoration; a delineation; a plan. \ (n.) A plan or scheme formed in the mind of something to be done; preliminary conception; idea intended to be expressed in a visible form or carried into action; intention; purpose; -- often used in a bad sense for evil intention or purpose; scheme; plot. \ (n.) Specifically, intention or purpose as revealed or inferred from the adaptation of means to an end, the argument from design. \ (n.) The realization of an inventive or decorative plan; esp., a work of decorative art considered as a new creation; conception or plan shown in completed work, this carved panel is a fine design, or of a fine design. \ (n.) The invention and conduct of the subject; the disposition of every part, and the general order of the whole.
ins designer (n.) One who designs, marks out, or plans; a contriver. \ (n.) One who produces or creates original works of art or decoration. \ (n.) A plotter; a schemer; -- used in a bad sense.
ins destroy v. to break into pieces; to end the existence of \ (v. t.) To unbuild; to pull or tear down; to separate virulently into its constituent parts; to break up the structure and organic existence of; to demolish. \ (v. t.) To ruin; to bring to naught; to put an end to; to annihilate; to consume. \ (v. t.) To put an end to the existence, prosperity, or beauty of; to kill.
ins detail n. a small part of something; a small piece of information \ (n.) A minute portion; one of the small parts; a particular; an item; -- used chiefly in the plural; as, the details of a scheme or transaction. \ (n.) A narrative which relates minute points; an account which dwells on particulars. \ (n.) The selection for a particular service of a person or a body of men; hence, the person or the body of men so selected. \ (n.) To relate in particulars; to particularize; to report minutely and distinctly; to enumerate; to specify, he detailed all the facts in due order. \ (n.) To tell off or appoint for a particular service, as an officer, a troop, or a squadron. \ (n.) A minor part, in a building, the cornice, caps of the buttresses, capitals of the columns, etc., or (called larger details) a porch, a gable with its windows, a pavilion, or an attached tower. \ (n.) A detail drawing.
ins develop v. to grow; to create; to experience progress \ (v. t.) To free from that which infolds or envelops; to unfold; to lay open by degrees or in detail; to make visible or known; to disclose; to produce or give forth; as, to develop theories; a motor that develops 100 horse power. \ (v. t.) To unfold gradually, as a flower from a bud; hence, to bring through a succession of states or stages, each of which is preparatory to the next; to form or expand by a process of growth; to cause to change gradually from an embryo, or a lower state, to a higher state or form of being, sunshine and rain develop the bud into a flower; to develop the mind. \ (v. t.) To advance; to further; to prefect; to make to increase; to promote the growth of. \ (v. t.) To change the form of, as of an algebraic expression, by executing certain indicated operations without changing the value. \ (v. t.) To cause to become visible, as an invisible or latent image upon plate, by submitting it to chemical agents; to bring to view. \ (v. i.) To go through a process of natural evolution or growth, by successive changes from a less perfect to a more perfect or more highly organized state; to advance from a simpler form of existence to one more complex either in structure or function, a blossom develops from a bud; the seed develops into a plant; the embryo develops into a well-formed animal; the mind develops year by year. \ (v. i.) To become apparent gradually, a picture on sensitive paper develops on the application of heat; the plans of the conspirators develop.
ins dial (n.) An instrument, formerly much used for showing the time of day from the shadow of a style or gnomon on a graduated arc or surface; esp., a sundial; but there are lunar and astral dials. The style or gnomon is usually parallel to the earth's axis, but the dial plate may be either horizontal or vertical. \ (n.) The graduated face of a timepiece, on which the time of day is shown by pointers or hands. \ (n.) A miner's compass. \ (v. t.) To measure with a dial. \ (v. t.) To survey with a dial.
ins diamond (n.) A precious stone or gem excelling in brilliancy and beautiful play of prismatic colors, and remarkable for extreme hardness. \ (n.) A geometrical figure, consisting of four equal straight lines, and having two of the interior angles acute and two obtuse; a rhombus; a lozenge. \ (n.) One of a suit of playing cards, stamped with the figure of a diamond. \ (n.) A pointed projection, like a four-sided pyramid, used for ornament in lines or groups. \ (n.) The infield; the square space, 90 feet on a side, having the bases at its angles. \ (n.) The smallest kind of type in English printing, except that called brilliant, which is seldom seen. \ (a.) Resembling a diamond; made of, or abounding in, diamonds; as, a diamond chain; a diamond field.
ins difference (n.) The act of differing; the state or measure of being different or unlike; distinction; dissimilarity; unlikeness; variation; as, a difference of quality in paper; a difference in degrees of heat, or of light; what is the difference between the innocent and the guilty? \ (n.) Disagreement in opinion; dissension; controversy; quarrel; hence, cause of dissension; matter in controversy. \ (n.) That by which one thing differs from another; that which distinguishes or causes to differ; mark of distinction; characteristic quality; specific attribute. \ (n.) Choice; preference. \ (n.) An addition to a coat of arms to distinguish the bearings of two persons, which would otherwise be the same. See Augmentation, and Marks of cadency, under Cadency. \ (n.) The quality or attribute which is added to those of the genus to constitute a species; a differentia. \ (n.) The quantity by which one quantity differs from another, or the remainder left after subtracting the one from the other. \ (v. t.) To cause to differ; to make different; to mark as different; to distinguish.
ins difficulty (n.) The state of being difficult, or hard to do; hardness; arduousness; -- opposed to easiness or facility; as, the difficulty of a task or enterprise; a work of difficulty. \ (n.) Something difficult; a thing hard to do or to understand; that which occasions labor or perplexity, and requires skill and perseverance to overcome, solve, or achieve; a hard enterprise; an obstacle; an impediment, the difficulties of a science; difficulties in theology. \ (n.) A controversy; a falling out; a disagreement; an objection; a cavil. \ (n.) Embarrassment of affairs, especially financial affairs; -- usually in the plural, to be in difficulties.
ins dig v. to make a hole in the ground \ (v. t.) To turn up, or delve in, (earth) with a spade or a hoe; to open, loosen, or break up (the soil) with a spade, or other sharp instrument; to pierce, open, or loosen, as if with a spade. \ (v. t.) To get by digging; as, to dig potatoes, or gold. \ (v. t.) To hollow out, as a well; to form, as a ditch, by removing earth; to excavate, to dig a ditch or a well. \ (v. t.) To thrust; to poke. \ (v. i.) To work with a spade or other like implement; to do servile work; to delve. \ (v. i.) To take ore from its bed, in distinction from making excavations in search of ore. \ (v. i.) To work like a digger; to study ploddingly and laboriously. \ (n.) A thrust; a punch; a poke, a dig in the side or the ribs. See Dig, v. t., 4. \ (v. t.) A plodding and laborious student. \ (v. i.) To work hard or drudge; \ (v. i.) To study ploddingly and laboriously. \ (v. i.) Of a tool: To cut deeply into the work because ill set, held at a wrong angle, or the like, as when a lathe tool is set too low and so sprung into the work. \ (n.) A tool for digging. \ (n.) An act of digging. \ (n.) An amount to be dug. \ (n.) = Gouge.
ins direct v. to lead; to aim or show the way ("He directed me to the theater."); ad. straight to something; not through some other person or thing ("The path is direct.") \ (a.) Straight; not crooked, oblique, or circuitous; leading by the short or shortest way to a point or end; as, a direct line; direct means. \ (a.) Straightforward; not of crooked ways, or swerving from truth and openness; sincere; outspoken. \ (a.) Immediate; express; plain; unambiguous. \ (a.) In the line of descent; not collateral, a descendant in the direct line. \ (a.) In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from west to east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of the motion of a celestial body. \ (v. t.) To arrange in a direct or straight line, as against a mark, or towards a goal; to point; to aim, to direct an arrow or a piece of ordnance. \ (v. t.) To point out or show to (any one), as the direct or right course or way; to guide, as by pointing out the way, he directed me to the left-hand road. \ (v. t.) To determine the direction or course of; to cause to go on in a particular manner; to order in the way to a certain end; to regulate; to govern, to direct the affairs of a nation or the movements of an army. \ (v. t.) To point out to with authority; to instruct as a superior; to order, he directed them to go. \ (v. t.) To put a direction or address upon; to mark with the name and residence of the person to whom anything is sent; to superscribe, to direct a letter. \ (v. i.) To give direction; to point out a course; to act as guide. \ (n.) A character, thus [/], placed at the end of a staff on the line or space of the first note of the next staff, to apprise the performer of its situation. \ (a.) Pertaining to, or effected immediately by, action of the people through their votes instead of through one or more representatives or delegates, direct nomination, direct legislation.
ins direction n. the way (east, west, north, south); where someone or something came from or went to \ (n.) The act of directing, of aiming, regulating, guiding, or ordering; guidance; management; superintendence; administration; as, the direction o/ public affairs or of a bank. \ (n.) That which is imposed by directing; a guiding or authoritative instruction; prescription; order; command, he grave directions to the servants. \ (n.) The name and residence of a person to whom any thing is sent, written upon the thing sent; superscription; address, the direction of a letter. \ (n.) The line or course upon which anything is moving or aimed to move, or in which anything is lying or pointing; aim; line or point of tendency; direct line or course, the ship sailed in a southeasterly direction. \ (n.) The body of managers of a corporation or enterprise; board of directors. \ (n.) The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary vertical axis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given when the plane of sight passes through the object.
ins directly (adv.) In a direct manner; in a straight line or course. \ (adv.) In a straightforward way; without anything intervening; not by secondary, but by direct, means. \ (adv.) Without circumlocution or ambiguity; absolutely; in express terms. \ (adv.) Exactly; just. \ (adv.) Straightforwardly; honestly. \ (adv.) Manifestly; openly. \ (adv.) Straightway; next in order; without delay; immediately. \ (adv.) Immediately after; as soon as.
ins disappear v. to become unseen; to no longer exist \ (v. i.) To cease to appear or to be perceived; to pass from view, gradually or suddenly; to vanish; to be no longer seen; as, darkness disappears at the approach of light; a ship disappears as she sails from port. \ (v. i.) To cease to be or exist, the epidemic has disappeared.
ins discount (v.) To deduct from an account, debt, charge, and the like; to make an abatement of; as, merchants sometimes discount five or six per cent for prompt payment of bills. \ (v.) To lend money upon, deducting the discount or allowance for interest, the banks discount notes and bills of exchange. \ (v.) To take into consideration beforehand; to anticipate and form conclusions concerning (an event). \ (v.) To leave out of account; to take no notice of. \ (v. i.) To lend, or make a practice of lending, money, abating the discount, the discount for sixty or ninety days. \ (v. t.) A counting off or deduction made from a gross sum on any account whatever; an allowance upon an account, demand, price asked; something taken or deducted. \ (v. t.) A deduction made for interest, in advancing money upon, or purchasing, a bill or note not due; payment in advance of interest upon money. \ (v. t.) The rate of interest charged in discounting.
ins discuss v. to talk about; to exchange ideas \ (v. t.) To break to pieces; to shatter. \ (v. t.) To break up; to disperse; to scatter; to dissipate; to drive away; -- said especially of tumors. \ (v. t.) To shake; to put away; to finish. \ (v. t.) To examine in detail or by disputation; to reason upon by presenting favorable and adverse considerations; to debate; to sift; to investigate; to ventilate. \ (v. t.) To deal with, in eating or drinking. \ (v. t.) To examine or search thoroughly; to exhaust a remedy against, as against a principal debtor before proceeding against the surety.
ins discussion (n.) The act or process of discussing by breaking up, or dispersing, as a tumor, or the like. \ (n.) The act of discussing or exchanging reasons; examination by argument; debate; disputation; agitation.
ins disease n. a sickness in living things, often caused by viruses, germs or bacteria \ (n.) Lack of ease; uneasiness; trouble; vexation; disquiet. \ (n.) An alteration in the state of the body or of some of its organs, interrupting or disturbing the performance of the vital functions, and causing or threatening pain and weakness; malady; affection; illness; sickness; disorder; -- applied figuratively to the mind, to the moral character and habits, to institutions, the state, etc. \ (v. t.) To deprive of ease; to disquiet; to trouble; to distress. \ (v. t.) To derange the vital functions of; to afflict with disease or sickness; to disorder; -- used almost exclusively in the participle diseased.
ins disk (n.) A discus; a quoit. \ (n.) A flat, circular plate; as, a disk of metal or paper. \ (n.) The circular figure of a celestial body, as seen projected of the heavens. \ (n.) A circular structure either in plants or animals, a blood disk; germinal disk, etc. \ (n.) The whole surface of a leaf. \ (n.) The central part of a radiate compound flower, as in sunflower. \ (n.) A part of the receptacle enlarged or expanded under, or around, or even on top of, the pistil. \ (n.) The anterior surface or oral area of coelenterate animals, as of sea anemones. \ (n.) The lower side of the body of some invertebrates, especially when used for locomotion, when it is often called a creeping disk. \ (n.) In owls, the space around the eyes.
ins dislike (v. t.) To regard with dislike or aversion; to disapprove; to disrelish. \ (v. t.) To awaken dislike in; to displease. \ (n.) A feeling of positive and usually permanent aversion to something unpleasant, uncongenial, or offensive; disapprobation; repugnance; displeasure; disfavor; -- the opposite of liking or fondness. \ (n.) Discord; dissension.
ins distance n. the amount of space between two places or objects ("The distance from my house to your house is two kilometers.") \ (n.) The space between two objects; the length of a line, especially the shortest line joining two points or things that are separate; measure of separation in place. \ (n.) Remoteness of place; a remote place. \ (n.) A space marked out in the last part of a race course. \ (n.) Relative space, between troops in ranks, measured from front to rear; -- contrasted with interval, which is measured from right to left. \ (n.) Space between two antagonists in fencing. \ (n.) The part of a picture which contains the representation of those objects which are the farthest away, esp. in a landscape. \ (n.) Ideal disjunction; discrepancy; contrariety. \ (n.) Length or interval of time; period, past or future, between two eras or events. \ (n.) The remoteness or reserve which respect requires; hence, respect; ceremoniousness. \ (n.) A withholding of intimacy; alienation; coldness; disagreement; variance; restraint; reserve. \ (n.) Remoteness in succession or relation; as, the distance between a descendant and his ancestor. \ (n.) The interval between two notes, the distance of a fourth or seventh. \ (v. t.) To place at a distance or remotely. \ (v. t.) To cause to appear as if at a distance; to make seem remote. \ (v. t.) To outstrip by as much as a distance (see Distance, n., 3); to leave far behind; to surpass greatly.
ins distant (a.) Separated; having an intervening space; at a distance; away. \ (a.) Far separated; far off; not near; remote; -- in place, time, consanguinity, or connection; as, distant times; distant relatives. \ (a.) Reserved or repelling in manners; cold; not cordial; somewhat haughty, a distant manner. \ (a.) Indistinct; faint; obscure, as from distance. \ (a.) Not conformable; discrepant; repugnant, a practice so widely distant from Christianity.
ins district (a.) Rigorous; stringent; harsh. \ (n.) The territory within which the lord has the power of coercing and punishing. \ (n.) A division of territory; a defined portion of a state, town, or city, etc., made for administrative, electoral, or other purposes; as, a congressional district, judicial district, land district, school district, etc. \ (n.) Any portion of territory of undefined extent; a region; a country; a tract. \ (v. t.) To divide into districts or limited portions of territory, legislatures district States for the choice of representatives.
ins divide v. to separate into two or more parts \ (v. t.) To part asunder (a whole); to sever into two or more parts or pieces; to sunder; to separate into parts. \ (v. t.) To cause to be separate; to keep apart by a partition, or by an imaginary line or limit; as, a wall divides two houses; a stream divides the towns. \ (v. t.) To make partition of among a number; to apportion, as profits of stock among proprietors; to give in shares; to distribute; to mete out; to share. \ (v. t.) To disunite in opinion or interest; to make discordant or hostile; to set at variance. \ (v. t.) To separate into two parts, in order to ascertain the votes for and against a measure, to divide a legislative house upon a question. \ (v. t.) To subject to arithmetical division. \ (v. t.) To separate into species; -- said of a genus or generic term. \ (v. t.) To mark divisions on; to graduate, to divide a sextant. \ (v. t.) To play or sing in a florid style, or with variations. \ (v. i.) To be separated; to part; to open; to go asunder. \ (v. i.) To cause separation; to disunite. \ (v. i.) To break friendship; to fall out. \ (v. i.) To have a share; to partake. \ (v. i.) To vote, as in the British Parliament, by the members separating themselves into two parties (as on opposite sides of the hall or in opposite lobbies), that is, the ayes dividing from the noes. \ (n.) A dividing ridge of land between the tributaries of two streams; a watershed.
ins double (a.) Twofold; multiplied by two; increased by its equivalent; made twice as large or as much, etc. \ (a.) Being in pairs; presenting two of a kind, or two in a set together; coupled. \ (a.) Divided into two; acting two parts, one openly and the other secretly; equivocal; deceitful; insincere. \ (a.) Having the petals in a flower considerably increased beyond the natural number, usually as the result of cultivation and the expense of the stamens, or stamens and pistils. The white water lily and some other plants have their blossoms naturally double. \ (adv.) Twice; doubly. \ (a.) To increase by adding an equal number, quantity, length, value, or the like; multiply by two; to double a sum of money; to double a number, or length. \ (a.) To make of two thicknesses or folds by turning or bending together in the middle; to fold one part upon another part of; as, to double the leaf of a book, and the like; to clinch, as the fist; -- often followed by up, to double up a sheet of paper or cloth. \ (a.) To be the double of; to exceed by twofold; to contain or be worth twice as much as. \ (a.) To pass around or by; to march or sail round, so as to reverse the direction of motion. \ (a.) To unite, as ranks or files, so as to form one from each two. \ (v. i.) To be increased to twice the sum, number, or value; to increase or grow to twice as much. \ (v. i.) To return upon one's track; to turn and go back over the same ground, or in an opposite direction. \ (v. i.) To play tricks; to use sleights; to play false. \ (v. i.) To set up a word or words a second time by mistake; to make a doublet. \ (n.) Twice as much; twice the number, sum, and the like. \ (n.) Among compositors, a doublet (see Doublet, 2.); among pressmen, a sheet that is twice pulled, and blurred. \ (n.) That which is doubled over or together; a doubling; a plait; a fold. \ (n.) A turn or circuit in running to escape pursues; hence, a trick; a shift; an artifice. \ (n.) Something precisely equal or counterpart to another; a counterpart. Hence, a wraith. \ (n.) A player or singer who prepares to take the part of another player in his absence; a substitute. \ (n.) Double beer; strong beer. \ (n.) A feast in which the antiphon is doubled, hat is, said twice, before and after the Psalms, instead of only half being said, as in simple feasts. \ (n.) A game between two pairs of players, a first prize for doubles. \ (n.) An old term for a variation, as in Bach's Suites. \ (n.) A person or thing that is the counterpart of another; a duplicate; copy; (Obs.) transcript; -- now chiefly used of persons. Hence, a wraith.
ins doubt (v. i.) To waver in opinion or judgment; to be in uncertainty as to belief respecting anything; to hesitate in belief; to be undecided as to the truth of the negative or the affirmative proposition; to b e undetermined. \ (v. i.) To suspect; to fear; to be apprehensive. \ (v. t.) To question or hold questionable; to withhold assent to; to hesitate to believe, or to be inclined not to believe; to withhold confidence from; to distrust; as, I have heard the story, but I doubt the truth of it. \ (v. t.) To suspect; to be apprehensive of. \ (v. t.) To fill with fear; to affright. \ (v. i.) A fluctuation of mind arising from defect of knowledge or evidence; uncertainty of judgment or mind; unsettled state of opinion concerning the reality of an event, or the truth of an assertion, etc.; hesitation. \ (v. i.) Uncertainty of condition. \ (v. i.) Suspicion; fear; apprehension; dread. \ (v. i.) Difficulty expressed or urged for solution; point unsettled; objection.
ins downstairs (adv.) Down the stairs; to a lower floor. \ (a.) Below stairs; as, a downstairs room.
ins dozen (pl. ) of Dozen \ (n.) A collection of twelve objects; a tale or set of twelve; with or without of before the substantive which follows. \ (n.) An indefinite small number.
ins drama (n.) A composition, in prose or poetry, accommodated to action, and intended to exhibit a picture of human life, or to depict a series of grave or humorous actions of more than ordinary interest, tending toward some striking result. It is commonly designed to be spoken and represented by actors on the stage. \ (n.) A series of real events invested with a dramatic unity and interest. \ (n.) Dramatic composition and the literature pertaining to or illustrating it; dramatic literature.
ins drill (v. t.) To pierce or bore with a drill, or a with a drill; to perforate; as, to drill a hole into a rock; to drill a piece of metal. \ (v. t.) To train in the military art; to exercise diligently, as soldiers, in military evolutions and exercises; hence, to instruct thoroughly in the rudiments of any art or branch of knowledge; to discipline. \ (v. i.) To practice an exercise or exercises; to train one's self. \ (n.) An instrument with an edged or pointed end used for making holes in hard substances; strictly, a tool that cuts with its end, by revolving, as in drilling metals, or by a succession of blows, as in drilling stone; also, a drill press. \ (n.) The act or exercise of training soldiers in the military art, as in the manual of arms, in the execution of evolutions, and the like, diligent and strict instruction and exercise in the rudiments and methods of any business; a kind or method of military exercises, infantry drill; battalion drill; artillery drill. \ (n.) Any exercise, physical or mental, enforced with regularity and by constant repetition, a severe drill in Latin grammar. \ (n.) A marine gastropod, of several species, which kills oysters and other bivalves by drilling holes through the shell. The most destructive kind is Urosalpinx cinerea. \ (v. t.) To cause to flow in drills or rills or by trickling; to drain by trickling, waters drilled through a sandy stratum. \ (v. t.) To sow, as seeds, by dribbling them along a furrow or in a row, like a trickling rill of water. \ (v. t.) To entice; to allure from step; to decoy; -- with on. \ (v. t.) To cause to slip or waste away by degrees. \ (v. i.) To trickle. \ (v. i.) To sow in drills. \ (n.) A small trickling stream; a rill. \ (n.) An implement for making holes for sowing seed, and sometimes so formed as to contain seeds and drop them into the hole made. \ (n.) A light furrow or channel made to put seed into sowing. \ (n.) A row of seed sown in a furrow. \ (n.) A large African baboon (Cynocephalus leucophaeus). \ (n.) Same as Drilling.
ins drinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Drink \ (n.) The act of one who drinks; the act of imbibing. \ (n.) The practice of partaking to excess of intoxicating liquors. \ (n.) An entertainment with liquors; a carousal.
ins drown v. to die under water \ (v. i.) To be suffocated in water or other fluid; to perish in water. \ (v. t.) To overwhelm in water; to submerge; to inundate. \ (v. t.) To deprive of life by immersion in water or other liquid. \ (v. t.) To overpower; to overcome; to extinguish; -- said especially of sound.
ins drug n. anything used as a medicine or in making medicine; a chemical substance used to ease pain or to affect the mind \ (v. i.) To drudge; to toil laboriously. \ (n.) A drudge (?). \ (n.) Any animal, vegetable, or mineral substance used in the composition of medicines; any stuff used in dyeing or in chemical operations. \ (n.) Any commodity that lies on hand, or is not salable; an article of slow sale, or in no demand. \ (v. i.) To prescribe or administer drugs or medicines. \ (v. t.) To affect or season with drugs or ingredients; esp., to stupefy by a narcotic drug. Also Fig. \ (v. t.) To tincture with something offensive or injurious. \ (v. t.) To dose to excess with, or as with, drugs.
ins drunk of Drink \ (p. p.) of Drink \ (a.) Intoxicated with, or as with, strong drink; inebriated; drunken; -- never used attributively, but always predicatively; as, the man is drunk (not, a drunk man). \ (a.) Drenched or saturated with moisture or liquid. \ (n.) A drunken condition; a spree.
ins dust n. pieces of matter so small that they can float in the air \ (n.) Fine, dry particles of earth or other matter, so comminuted that they may be raised and wafted by the wind; that which is crumbled too minute portions; fine powder; as, clouds of dust; bone dust. \ (n.) A single particle of earth or other matter. \ (n.) The earth, as the resting place of the dead. \ (n.) The earthy remains of bodies once alive; the remains of the human body. \ (n.) Figuratively, a worthless thing. \ (n.) Figuratively, a low or mean condition. \ (n.) Gold dust \ (n.) Coined money; cash. \ (v. t.) To free from dust; to brush, wipe, or sweep away dust from, to dust a table or a floor. \ (v. t.) To sprinkle with dust. \ (v. t.) To reduce to a fine powder; to levigate.
ins duty n. one's job or responsibility; what one must do because it is right and just \ (n.) That which is due; payment. \ (n.) That which a person is bound by moral obligation to do, or refrain from doing; that which one ought to do; service morally obligatory. \ (n.) Hence, any assigned service or business; as, the duties of a policeman, or a soldier; to be on duty. \ (n.) Specifically, obedience or submission due to parents and superiors. \ (n.) Respect; reverence; regard; act of respect; homage. \ (n.) The efficiency of an engine, especially a steam pumping engine, as measured by work done by a certain quantity of fuel; usually, the number of pounds of water lifted one foot by one bushel of coal (94 lbs. old standard), or by 1 cwt. (112 lbs., England, or 100 lbs., United States). \ (n.) Tax, toll, impost, or customs; excise; any sum of money required by government to be paid on the importation, exportation, or consumption of goods.
ins earn v. to be paid in return for work done \ (n.) See Ern, n. \ (v. t.) To merit or deserve, as by labor or service; to do that which entitles one to (a reward, whether the reward is received or not). \ (v. t.) To acquire by labor, service, or performance; to deserve and receive as compensation or wages; as, to earn a good living; to earn honors or laurels. \ (v. t. & i.) To grieve. \ (v. i.) To long; to yearn. \ (v. i.) To curdle, as milk.
ins earring (n.) An ornament consisting of a ring passed through the lobe of the ear, with or without a pendant.
ins easily (adv.) With ease; without difficulty or much effort; as, this task may be easily performed; that event might have been easily foreseen. \ (adv.) Without pain, anxiety, or disturbance, to pass life well and easily. \ (adv.) Readily; without reluctance; willingly. \ (adv.) Smoothly; quietly; gently; gracefully; without /umult or discord. \ (adv.) Without shaking or jolting; commodiously, a carriage moves easily.
ins edge n. the line where something ends or begins \ (v. t.) The thin cutting side of the blade of an instrument; as, the edge of an ax, knife, sword, or scythe. Hence, figuratively, that which cuts as an edge does, or wounds deeply, etc. \ (v. t.) Any sharp terminating border; a margin; a brink; extreme verge, the edge of a table, a precipice. \ (v. t.) Sharpness; readiness of fitness to cut; keenness; intenseness of desire. \ (v. t.) The border or part adjacent to the line of division; the beginning or early part, in the edge of evening. \ (v. t.) To furnish with an edge as a tool or weapon; to sharpen. \ (v. t.) To shape or dress the edge of, as with a tool. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a fringe or border, to edge a dress; to edge a garden with box. \ (v. t.) To make sharp or keen; to incite; to exasperate; to goad; to urge or egg on. \ (v. t.) To move by little and little or cautiously, as by pressing forward edgewise, edging their chairs forwards. \ (v. i.) To move sideways; to move gradually, edge along this way. \ (v. i.) To sail close to the wind.
ins educate (v. t.) To bring /// or guide the powers of, as a child; to develop and cultivate, whether physically, mentally, or morally, but more commonly limited to the mental activities or senses; to expand, strengthen, and discipline, as the mind, a faculty, etc.; to form and regulate the principles and character of; to prepare and fit for any calling or business by systematic instruction; to cultivate; to train; to instruct; as, to educate a child; to educate the eye or the taste.
ins education n. the act of teaching \ (n.) The act or process of educating; the result of educating, as determined by the knowledge skill, or discipline of character, acquired; also, the act or process of training by a prescribed or customary course of study or discipline; as, an education for the bar or the pulpit; he has finished his education.
ins effect n. the result or change caused by something ("The storm had a serious effect on the economy.") \ (n.) Execution; performance; realization; operation; as, the law goes into effect in May. \ (n.) Manifestation; expression; sign. \ (n.) In general: That which is produced by an agent or cause; the event which follows immediately from an antecedent, called the cause; result; consequence; outcome; fruit, the effect of luxury. \ (n.) Impression left on the mind; sensation produced. \ (n.) Power to produce results; efficiency; force; importance; account, to speak with effect. \ (n.) Consequence intended; purpose; meaning; general intent; -- with to. \ (n.) The purport; the sum and substance. \ (n.) Reality; actual meaning; fact, as distinguished from mere appearance. \ (n.) Goods; movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to embrace real as well as personal property, the people escaped from the town with their effects. \ (v. t.) To produce, as a cause or agent; to cause to be. \ (v. t.) To bring to pass; to execute; to enforce; to achieve; to accomplish.
ins effort n. an attempt; the work necessary to do something \ (n.) An exertion of strength or power, whether physical or mental, in performing an act or aiming at an object; more or less strenuous endeavor; struggle directed to the accomplishment of an object; as, an effort to scale a wall. \ (n.) A force acting on a body in the direction of its motion. \ (v. t.) To stimulate.
ins eighteenth (a.) Next in order after the seventeenth. \ (a.) Consisting of one of eighteen equal parts or divisions of a thing. \ (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by eighteen; one of eighteen equal parts or divisions. \ (n.) The eighth after the tenth.
ins eighth (a.) Next in order after the seventh. \ (a.) Consisting of one of eight equal divisions of a thing. \ (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by eight; one of eight equal parts; an eighth part. \ (n.) The interval of an octave.
ins eightieth (a.) The next in order after seventy-ninth. \ (a.) Consisting of one of eighty equal parts or divisions. \ (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by eighty; one of eighty equal parts.
ins elbow (n.) The joint or bend of the arm; the outer curve in the middle of the arm when bent. \ (n.) Any turn or bend like that of the elbow, in a wall, building, and the like; a sudden turn in a line of coast or course of a river; also, an angular or jointed part of any structure, as the raised arm of a chair or sofa, or a short pipe fitting, turning at an angle or bent. \ (n.) A sharp angle in any surface of wainscoting or other woodwork; the upright sides which flank any paneled work, as the sides of windows, where the jamb makes an elbow with the window back. \ (v. t.) To push or hit with the elbow, as when one pushes by another. \ (v. i.) To jut into an angle; to project or to bend after the manner of an elbow. \ (v. i.) To push rudely along; to elbow one's way.
ins elder (a.) Older; more aged, or existing longer. \ (a.) Born before another; prior in years; senior; earlier; older; as, his elder brother died in infancy; -- opposed to younger, and now commonly applied to a son, daughter, child, brother, etc. \ (a.) One who is older; a superior in age; a senior. \ (a.) An aged person; one who lived at an earlier period; a predecessor. \ (a.) A person who, on account of his age, occupies the office of ruler or judge; hence, a person occupying any office appropriate to such as have the experience and dignity which age confers, the elders of Israel; the elders of the synagogue; the elders in the apostolic church. \ (a.) A clergyman authorized to administer all the sacraments, a traveling elder. \ (n.) A genus of shrubs (Sambucus) having broad umbels of white flowers, and small black or red berries.
ins electric (a.) Alt. of Electrical \ (n.) A nonconductor of electricity, as amber, glass, resin, etc., employed to excite or accumulate electricity.
ins electricity n. a form of energy that flows through wires to provide heat and light, and power to machines \ (n.) A power in nature, a manifestation of energy, exhibiting itself when in disturbed equilibrium or in activity by a circuit movement, the fact of direction in which involves polarity, or opposition of properties in opposite directions; also, by attraction for many substances, by a law involving attraction between surfaces of unlike polarity, and repulsion between those of like; by exhibiting accumulated polar tension when the circuit is broken; and by producing heat, light, concussion, and often chemical changes when the circuit passes between the poles or through any imperfectly conducting substance or space. It is generally brought into action by any disturbance of molecular equilibrium, whether from a chemical, physical, or mechanical, cause. \ (n.) The science which unfolds the phenomena and laws of electricity; electrical science. \ (n.) Fig.: Electrifying energy or characteristic.
ins elevator (n.) One who, or that which, raises or lifts up anything \ (n.) A mechanical contrivance, usually an endless belt or chain with a series of scoops or buckets, for transferring grain to an upper loft for storage. \ (n.) A cage or platform and the hoisting machinery in a hotel, warehouse, mine, etc., for conveying persons, goods, to or from different floors or levels; -- called in England a lift; the cage or platform itself. \ (n.) A building for elevating, storing, and discharging, grain. \ (n.) A muscle which serves to raise a part of the body, as the leg or the eye. \ (n.) An instrument for raising a depressed portion of a bone. \ (n.) A movable plane or group of planes used to control the altitude or fore-and-aft poise or inclination of an airship or flying machine.
ins eleventh (a.) Next after the tenth; as, the eleventh chapter. \ (a.) Constituting one of eleven parts into which a thing is divided, the eleventh part of a thing. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the interval of the octave and the fourth. \ (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by eleven; one of eleven equal parts. \ (n.) The interval consisting of ten conjunct degrees; the interval made up of an octave and a fourth.
ins empty ad. having nothing inside; v. to remove everything \ (superl.) Containing nothing; not holding or having anything within; void of contents or appropriate contents; not filled; -- said of an inclosure, as a box, room, house, etc.; as, an empty chest, purse, or pitcher; an empty stomach; empty shackles. \ (superl.) Free; clear; devoid; -- often with of. \ (superl.) Having nothing to carry; unburdened. \ (superl.) Destitute of effect, sincerity, or sense; -- said of language, empty words, or threats. \ (superl.) Unable to satisfy; unsatisfactory; hollow; vain; -- said of pleasure, the world, etc. \ (superl.) Producing nothing; unfruitful; -- said of a plant or tree, an empty vine. \ (superl.) Destitute of, or lacking, sense, knowledge, or courtesy, empty brains; an empty coxcomb. \ (superl.) Destitute of reality, or real existence; unsubstantial, empty dreams. \ (n.) An empty box, crate, cask; -- used in commerce, esp. in transportation of freight, "special rates for empties." \ (v. t.) To deprive of the contents; to exhaust; to make void or destitute; to make vacant; to pour out; to discharge, to empty a vessel; to empty a well or a cistern. \ (v. i.) To discharge itself, a river empties into the ocean. \ (v. i.) To become empty.
ins ending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of End \ (n.) Termination; concluding part; result; conclusion; destruction; death. \ (n.) The final syllable or letter of a word; the part joined to the stem. See 3d Case, 5.
ins enemy n. a person opposing or hating another; a person or people of the other side in a war \ (n.) One hostile to another; one who hates, and desires or attempts the injury of, another; a foe; an adversary; as, an enemy of or to a person; an enemy to truth, or to falsehood. \ (a.) Hostile; inimical.
ins energy n. power used to do work, usually with machines; the ability and willingness to be active \ (n.) Internal or inherent power; capacity of acting, operating, or producing an effect, whether exerted or not; as, men possessing energies may suffer them to lie inactive. \ (n.) Power efficiently and forcibly exerted; vigorous or effectual operation, the energy of a magistrate. \ (n.) Strength of expression; force of utterance; power to impress the mind and arouse the feelings; life; spirit; -- said of speech, language, words, style, a style full of energy. \ (n.) Capacity for performing work.
ins engine n. a machine that uses energy to cause movement or to do work \ (n.) (Pronounced, in this sense, ////.) Natural capacity; ability; skill. \ (n.) Anything used to effect a purpose; any device or contrivance; an agent. \ (n.) Any instrument by which any effect is produced; especially, an instrument or machine of war or torture. \ (n.) A compound machine by which any physical power is applied to produce a given physical effect. \ (v. t.) To assault with an engine. \ (v. t.) To equip with an engine; -- said especially of steam vessels; as, vessels are often built by one firm and engined by another. \ (v. t.) (Pronounced, in this sense, /////.) To rack; to torture.
ins engineer n. a person who designs engines, machines, roads, bridges or railroads \ (n.) A person skilled in the principles and practice of any branch of engineering. See under Engineering, n. \ (n.) One who manages as engine, particularly a steam engine; an engine driver. \ (n.) One who carries through an enterprise by skillful or artful contrivance; an efficient manager. \ (v. t.) To lay out or construct, as an engineer; to perform the work of an engineer on; as, to engineer a road. \ (v. t.) To use contrivance and effort for; to guide the course of; to manage, to engineer a bill through Congress.
ins entrance (n.) The act of entering or going into; ingress; as, the entrance of a person into a house or an apartment; hence, the act of taking possession, as of property, or of office, the entrance of an heir upon his inheritance, or of a magistrate into office. \ (n.) Liberty, power, or permission to enter, to give entrance to friends. \ (n.) The passage, door, or gate, for entering. \ (n.) The entering upon; the beginning, or that with which the beginning is made; the commencement; initiation, a difficult entrance into business. \ (n.) The causing to be entered upon a register, as a ship or goods, at a customhouse; an entering, his entrance of the arrival was made the same day. \ (n.) The angle which the bow of a vessel makes with the water at the water line. \ (n.) The bow, or entire wedgelike forepart of a vessel, below the water line. \ (v. t.) To put into a trance; to make insensible to present objects. \ (v. t.) To put into an ecstasy; to ravish with delight or wonder; to enrapture; to charm.
ins envelope (n.) Alt. of Envelop
ins equal ad. the same in amount, size, weight or value; having the same rights \ (a.) Agreeing in quantity, quality, degree, value, etc.; having the same magnitude, the same value, the same degree; -- applied to number, quantity, and intensity, and to any subject which admits of them; neither inferior nor superior, greater nor less, better nor worse; corresponding; alike; as, equal quantities of land, water, etc. ; houses of equal size; persons of equal stature or talents; commodities of equal value. \ (a.) Bearing a suitable relation; of just proportion; having competent power, abilities, or means; adequate, he is not equal to the task. \ (a.) Not variable; equable; uniform; even, an equal movement. \ (a.) Evenly balanced; not unduly inclining to either side; characterized by fairness; unbiased; impartial; equitable; just. \ (a.) Of the same interest or concern; indifferent. \ (a.) Intended for voices of one kind only, either all male or all female; -- opposed to mixed. \ (a.) Exactly agreeing with respect to quantity. \ (n.) One not inferior or superior to another; one having the same or a similar age, rank, station, office, talents, strength, or other quality or condition; an equal quantity or number, "If equals be taken from equals the remainders are equal." \ (n.) State of being equal; equality. \ (v. t.) To be or become equal to; to have the same quantity, the same degree or rank, or the like, with; to be commen/urate with. \ (v. t.) To make equal return to; to recompense fully. \ (v. t.) To make equal or equal to; to equalize; hence, to compare or regard as equals; to put on equality.
ins eraser (n.) One who, or that which, erases; esp., a sharp instrument or a piece of rubber used to erase writings, drawings, etc.
ins error (n.) A wandering; a roving or irregular course. \ (n.) A wandering or deviation from the right course or standard; irregularity; mistake; inaccuracy; something made wrong or left wrong; as, an error in writing or in printing; a clerical error. \ (n.) A departing or deviation from the truth; falsity; false notion; wrong opinion; misapprehension. \ (n.) A moral offense; violation of duty; a sin or transgression; iniquity; fault. \ (n.) The difference between the approximate result and the true result; -- used particularly in the rule of double position. \ (n.) The difference between an observed value and the true value of a quantity. \ (n.) The difference between the observed value of a quantity and that which is taken or computed to be the true value; -- sometimes called residual error. \ (n.) A mistake in the proceedings of a court of record in matters of law or of fact. \ (n.) A fault of a player of the side in the field which results in failure to put out a player on the other side, or gives him an unearned base.
ins escape v. to get free; to get away from; to get out of \ (v.) To flee from and avoid; to be saved or exempt from; to shun; to obtain security from; as, to escape danger. \ (v.) To avoid the notice of; to pass unobserved by; to evade, the fact escaped our attention. \ (v. i.) To flee, and become secure from danger; -- often followed by from or out of. \ (v. i.) To get clear from danger or evil of any form; to be passed without harm. \ (v. i.) To get free from that which confines or holds; -- used of persons or things, to escape from prison, from arrest, or from slavery; gas escapes from the pipes; electricity escapes from its conductors. \ (n.) The act of fleeing from danger, of evading harm, or of avoiding notice; deliverance from injury or any evil; flight, an escape in battle; a narrow escape; also, the means of escape, a fire escape. \ (n.) That which escapes attention or restraint; a mistake; an oversight, transgression. \ (n.) A sally. \ (n.) The unlawful permission, by a jailer or other custodian, of a prisoner's departure from custody. \ (n.) An apophyge. \ (n.) Leakage or outflow, as of steam or a liquid. \ (n.) Leakage or loss of currents from the conducting wires, caused by defective insulation. \ (n.) A plant which has escaped from cultivation.
ins especially ad. more than others ("We liked the food, especially the fish.") \ (adv.) In an especial manner; chiefly; particularly; peculiarly; in an uncommon degree.
ins event n. that which happens, especially something of importance \ (n.) That which comes, arrives, or happens; that which falls out; any incident, good or bad. \ (n.) An affair in hand; business; enterprise. \ (n.) The consequence of anything; the issue; conclusion; result; that in which an action, operation, or series of operations, terminates. \ (v. t.) To break forth.
ins everyday (a.) Used or fit for every day; common; usual; as, an everyday suit or clothes.
ins exact ad. having no mistakes; correct in every detail \ (a.) Precisely agreeing with a standard, a fact, or the truth; perfectly conforming; neither exceeding nor falling short in any respect; true; correct; precise; as, the clock keeps exact time; he paid the exact debt; an exact copy of a letter; exact accounts. \ (a.) Habitually careful to agree with a standard, a rule, or a promise; accurate; methodical; punctual, a man exact in observing an appointment; in my doings I was exact. \ (a.) Precisely or definitely conceived or stated; strict. \ (a.) To demand or require authoritatively or peremptorily, as a right; to enforce the payment of, or a yielding of; to compel to yield or to furnish; hence, to wrest, as a fee or reward when none is due; -- followed by from or of before the one subjected to exaction, to exact tribute, fees, obedience, etc., from or of some one. \ (v. i.) To practice exaction.
ins exactly (adv.) In an exact manner; precisely according to a rule, standard, or fact; accurately; strictly; correctly; nicely.
ins examination (n.) The act of examining, or state of being examined; a careful search, investigation, or inquiry; scrutiny by study or experiment. \ (n.) A process prescribed or assigned for testing qualification; as, the examination of a student, or of a candidate for admission to the bar or the ministry.
ins examine v. to study closely \ (v. t.) To test by any appropriate method; to inspect carefully with a view to discover the real character or state of; to subject to inquiry or inspection of particulars for the purpose of obtaining a fuller insight into the subject of examination, as a material substance, a fact, a reason, a cause, the truth of a statement; to inquire or search into; to explore; as, to examine a mineral; to examine a ship to know whether she is seaworthy; to examine a proposition, theory, or question. \ (v. t.) To interrogate as in a judicial proceeding; to try or test by question, to examine a witness in order to elicit testimony, a student to test his qualifications, a bankrupt touching the state of his property, etc.
ins example n. a part that shows what the rest of a thing or group is like \ (n.) One or a portion taken to show the character or quality of the whole; a sample; a specimen. \ (n.) That which is to be followed or imitated as a model; a pattern or copy. \ (n.) That which resembles or corresponds with something else; a precedent; a model. \ (n.) That which is to be avoided; one selected for punishment and to serve as a warning; a warning. \ (n.) An instance serving for illustration of a rule or precept, especially a problem to be solved, or a case to be determined, as an exercise in the application of the rules of any study or branch of science; as, in trigonometry and grammar, the principles and rules are illustrated by examples. \ (v. t.) To set an example for; to give a precedent for; to exemplify; to give an instance of; to instance.
ins excellent ad. extremely good \ (a.) Excelling; surpassing others in some good quality or the sum of qualities; of great worth; eminent, in a good sense; superior; as, an excellent man, artist, citizen, husband, discourse, book, song, etc.; excellent breeding, principles, aims, action. \ (a.) Superior in kind or degree, irrespective of moral quality; -- used with words of a bad significance. \ (adv.) Excellently; eminently; exceedingly.
ins except prep. but for \ (v. t.) To take or leave out (anything) from a number or a whole as not belonging to it; to exclude; to omit. \ (v. t.) To object to; to protest against. \ (v. i.) To take exception; to object; -- usually followed by to, sometimes by against; as, to except to a witness or his testimony. \ (prep.) With exclusion of; leaving or left out; excepting. \ (conj.) Unless; if it be not so that.
ins exciting (a.) Calling or rousing into action; producing excitement; as, exciting events; an exciting story. \ (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Excite
ins exercise n. an activity or effort for the purpose of improving the body or to stay in good health \ (n.) The act of exercising; a setting in action or practicing; employment in the proper mode of activity; exertion; application; use; habitual activity; occupation, in general; practice. \ (n.) Exertion for the sake of training or improvement whether physical, intellectual, or moral; practice to acquire skill, knowledge, virtue, perfectness, grace, etc. \ (n.) Bodily exertion for the sake of keeping the organs and functions in a healthy state; hygienic activity; as, to take exercise on horseback. \ (n.) The performance of an office, a ceremony, or a religious duty. \ (n.) That which is done for the sake of exercising, practicing, training, or promoting skill, health, mental, improvement, moral discipline, etc.; that which is assigned or prescribed for such ends; hence, a disquisition; a lesson; a task, military or naval exercises; musical exercises; an exercise in composition. \ (n.) That which gives practice; a trial; a test. \ (v. t.) To set in action; to cause to act, move, or make exertion; to give employment to; to put in action habitually or constantly; to school or train; to exert repeatedly; to busy. \ (v. t.) To exert for the sake of training or improvement; to practice in order to develop, also, to improve by practice; to discipline, and to use or to for the purpose of training, to exercise arms; to exercise one's self in music; to exercise troops. \ (v. t.) To occupy the attention and effort of; to task; to tax, especially in a painful or vexatious manner; harass; to vex; to worry or make anxious; to affect, exercised with pain. \ (v. t.) To put in practice; to carry out in action; to perform the duties of; to use; to employ; to practice, to exercise authority; to exercise an office. \ (v. i.) To exercise one's self, as under military training; to drill; to take exercise; to use action or exertion; to practice gymnastics, to exercise for health or amusement.
ins exist v. to be; to live \ (v. i.) To be as a fact and not as a mode; to have an actual or real being, whether material or spiritual. \ (v. i.) To be manifest in any manner; to continue to be; as, great evils existed in his reign. \ (v. i.) To live; to have life or the functions of vitality, men can not exist water, nor fishes on land.
ins exit He (or she ) goes out, or retires from view; as, exit Macbeth. \ (n.) The departure of a player from the stage, when he has performed his part. \ (n.) Any departure; the act of quitting the stage of action or of life; death, to make one's exit. \ (n.) A way of departure; passage out of a place; egress; way out.
ins expect v. to think or believe that something will happen; to wait for an event \ (v. t.) To wait for; to await. \ (v. t.) To look for (mentally); to look forward to, as to something that is believed to be about to happen or come; to have a previous apprehension of, whether of good or evil; to look for with some confidence; to anticipate; -- often followed by an infinitive, sometimes by a clause (with, or without, that); as, I expect to receive wages; I expect that the troops will be defeated. \ (v. t.) To wait; to stay. \ (n.) Expectation.
ins expensive (a.) Occasioning expense; calling for liberal outlay; costly; dear; liberal; as, expensive dress; an expensive house or family. \ (a.) Free in expending; very liberal; especially, in a bad scene; extravagant; lavish.
ins experience v. to live through an event, situation or condition ("She experienced great pain."); n. something that one has done or lived through ("The experience caused her great pain.") \ (n.) Trial, as a test or experiment. \ (n.) The effect upon the judgment or feelings produced by any event, whether witnessed or participated in; personal and direct impressions as contrasted with description or fancies; personal acquaintance; actual enjoyment or suffering. \ (n.) An act of knowledge, one or more, by which single facts or general truths are ascertained; experimental or inductive knowledge; hence, implying skill, facility, or practical wisdom gained by personal knowledge, feeling or action; as, a king without experience of war.
ins explain v. to give reasons for; to make clear; to tell about; to tell the meaning \ (a.) To flatten; to spread out; to unfold; to expand. \ (a.) To make plain, manifest, or intelligible; to clear of obscurity; to expound; to unfold and illustrate the meaning of; as, to explain a chapter of the Bible. \ (v. i.) To give an explanation.
ins express v. to say clearly \ (a.) Exactly representing; exact. \ (a.) Directly and distinctly stated; declared in terms; not implied or left to inference; made unambiguous by intention and care; clear; not dubious; as, express consent; an express statement. \ (a.) Intended for a particular purpose; relating to an express; sent on a particular errand; dispatched with special speed, an express messenger or train. Also used adverbially. \ (n.) A clear image or representation; an expression; a plain declaration. \ (n.) A messenger sent on a special errand; a courier; hence, a regular and fast conveyance; commonly, a company or system for the prompt and safe transportation of merchandise or parcels; also, a railway train for transporting passengers or goods with speed and punctuality. \ (n.) An express office. \ (n.) That which is sent by an express messenger or message. \ (a.) To press or squeeze out, to express the juice of grapes, or of apples, to extort; to elicit. \ (a.) To make or offer a representation of; to show by a copy or likeness; to represent; to resemble. \ (a.) To give a true impression of; to represent and make known; to manifest plainly; to show in general; to exhibit, as an opinion or feeling, by a look, gesture, and esp. by language; to declare; to utter; to tell. \ (a.) To make known the opinions or feelings of; to declare what is in the mind of; to show (one's self); to cause to appear; -- used reflexively. \ (a.) To denote; to designate. \ (a.) To send by express messenger; to forward by special opportunity, or through the medium of an express, to express a package.
ins fail v. to not succeed; to not reach a goal \ (v. i.) To be wanting; to fall short; to be or become deficient in any measure or degree up to total absence; to cease to be furnished in the usual or expected manner, or to be altogether cut off from supply; to be lacking; as, streams fail; crops fail. \ (v. i.) To be affected with want; to come short; to lack; to be deficient or unprovided; -- used with of. \ (v. i.) To fall away; to become diminished; to decline; to decay; to sink. \ (v. i.) To deteriorate in respect to vigor, activity, resources, etc.; to become weaker, a sick man fails. \ (v. i.) To perish; to die; -- used of a person. \ (v. i.) To be found wanting with respect to an action or a duty to be performed, a result to be secured; to miss; not to fulfill expectation. \ (v. i.) To come short of a result or object aimed at or desired ; to be baffled or frusrated. \ (v. i.) To err in judgment; to be mistaken. \ (v. i.) To become unable to meet one's engagements; especially, to be unable to pay one's debts or discharge one's business obligation; to become bankrupt or insolvent. \ (v. t.) To be wanting to ; to be insufficient for; to disappoint; to desert. \ (v. t.) To miss of attaining; to lose. \ (v. i.) Miscarriage; failure; deficiency; fault; -- mostly superseded by failure or failing, except in the phrase without fail. \ (v. i.) Death; decease.
ins fair ad. just; honest; what is right \ (superl.) Free from spots, specks, dirt, or imperfection; unblemished; clean; pure. \ (superl.) Pleasing to the eye; handsome; beautiful. \ (superl.) Without a dark hue; light; clear; as, a fair skin. \ (superl.) Not overcast; cloudless; pleasant; propitious; favorable; -- said of the sky, weather, or wind, etc., a fair sky; a fair day. \ (superl.) Free from obstacles or hindrances; unobstructed; unincumbered; open; direct; -- said of a road, passage, a fair mark; in fair sight; a fair view. \ (superl.) Without sudden change of direction or curvature; smooth; fowing; -- said of the figure of a vessel, and of surfaces, water lines, and other lines. \ (superl.) Characterized by frankness, honesty, impartiality, or candor; upright; free from suspicion or bias; equitable; just; -- said of persons, character, or conduct, a fair man; fair dealing; a fair statement. \ (superl.) Pleasing; inspiring hope and confidence; -- said of words, promises, etc. \ (superl.) Distinct; legible, fair handwriting. \ (superl.) Free from any marked characteristic; average; middling, a fair specimen. \ (adv.) Clearly; openly; frankly; civilly; honestly; favorably; auspiciously; agreeably. \ (n.) Fairness, beauty. \ (n.) A fair woman; a sweetheart. \ (n.) Good fortune; good luck. \ (v. t.) To make fair or beautiful. \ (v. t.) To make smooth and flowing, as a vessel's lines. \ (n.) A gathering of buyers and sellers, assembled at a particular place with their merchandise at a stated or regular season, or by special appointment, for trade. \ (n.) A festival, and sale of fancy articles. erc., usually for some charitable object, a Grand Army fair. \ (n.) A competitive exhibition of wares, farm products, not primarily for purposes of sale, the Mechanics' fair; an agricultural fair.
ins false ad. not true; not correct \ (superl.) Uttering falsehood; unveracious; given to deceit; dishnest; as, a false witness. \ (superl.) Not faithful or loyal, as to obligations, allegiance, vows, etc.; untrue; treacherous; perfidious, a false friend, lover, or subject; false to promises. \ (superl.) Not according with truth or reality; not true; fitted or likely to deceive or disappoint, a false statement. \ (superl.) Not genuine or real; assumed or designed to deceive; counterfeit; hypocritical, false tears; false modesty; false colors; false jewelry. \ (superl.) Not well founded; not firm or trustworthy; erroneous, a false claim; a false conclusion; a false construction in grammar. \ (superl.) Not essential or permanent, as parts of a structure which are temporary or supplemental. \ (superl.) Not in tune. \ (adv.) Not truly; not honestly; falsely. \ (a.) To report falsely; to falsify. \ (a.) To betray; to falsify. \ (a.) To mislead by want of truth; to deceive. \ (a.) To feign; to pretend to make.
ins familiar (a.) Of or pertaining to a family; domestic. \ (a.) Closely acquainted or intimate, as a friend or companion; well versed in, as any subject of study; as, familiar with the Scriptures. \ (a.) Characterized by, or exhibiting, the manner of an intimate friend; not formal; unconstrained; easy; accessible. \ (a.) Well known; well understood; common; frequent, a familiar illustration. \ (a.) Improperly acquainted; wrongly intimate. \ (n.) An intimate; a companion. \ (n.) An attendant demon or evil spirit. \ (n.) A confidential officer employed in the service of the tribunal, especially in apprehending and imprisoning the accused.
ins fan (n.) An instrument used for producing artificial currents of air, by the wafting or revolving motion of a broad surface \ (n.) An instrument for cooling the person, made of feathers, paper, silk, etc., and often mounted on sticks all turning about the same pivot, so as when opened to radiate from the center and assume the figure of a section of a circle. \ (n.) Any revolving vane or vanes used for producing currents of air, in winnowing grain, blowing a fire, ventilation, or for checking rapid motion by the resistance of the air; a fan blower; a fan wheel. \ (n.) An instrument for winnowing grain, by moving which the grain is tossed and agitated, and the chaff is separated and blown away. \ (n.) Something in the form of a fan when spread, as a peacock's tail, a window, etc. \ (n.) A small vane or sail, used to keep the large sails of a smock windmill always in the direction of the wind. \ (n.) That which produces effects analogous to those of a fan, as in exciting a flame; that which inflames, heightens, or strengthens; as, it served as a fan to the flame of his passion. \ (n.) A quintain; -- from its form. \ (n.) To move as with a fan. \ (n.) To cool and refresh, by moving the air with a fan; to blow the air on the face of with a fan. \ (n.) To ventilate; to blow on; to affect by air put in motion. \ (n.) To winnow; to separate chaff from, and drive it away by a current of air, to fan wheat. \ (n.) To excite or stir up to activity, as a fan axcites a flame; to stimulate, this conduct fanned the excitement of the populace.
ins fare (n.) To go; to pass; to journey; to travel. \ (n.) To be in any state, or pass through any experience, good or bad; to be attended with any circummstances or train of events, fortunate or unfortunate; as, he fared well, or ill. \ (n.) To be treated or entertained at table, or with bodily or social comforts; to live. \ (n.) To happen well, or ill; -- used impersonally, we shall see how it will fare with him. \ (n.) To behave; to conduct one's self. \ (v.) A journey; a passage. \ (v.) The price of passage or going; the sum paid or due for conveying a person by land or water, the fare for crossing a river; the fare in a coach or by railway. \ (v.) Ado; bustle; business. \ (v.) Condition or state of things; fortune; hap; cheer. \ (v.) Food; provisions for the table; entertainment, coarse fare; delicious fare. \ (v.) The person or persons conveyed in a vehicle, a full fare of passengers. \ (v.) The catch of fish on a fishing vessel.
ins fashion (n.) The make or form of anything; the style, shape, appearance, or mode of structure; pattern, model; as, the fashion of the ark, of a coat, of a house, of an altar, etc.; workmanship; execution. \ (n.) The prevailing mode or style, especially of dress; custom or conventional usage in respect of dress, behavior, etiquette; particularly, the mode or style usual among persons of good breeding, to dress, dance, sing, ride, in the fashion. \ (n.) Polite, fashionable, or genteel life; social position; good breeding, men of fashion. \ (n.) Mode of action; method of conduct; manner; custom; sort; way. \ (v. t.) To form; to give shape or figure to; to mold. \ (v. t.) To fit; to adapt; to accommodate; -- with to. \ (v. t.) To make according to the rule prescribed by custom. \ (v. t.) To forge or counterfeit.
ins fault (n.) Defect; want; lack; default. \ (n.) Anything that fails, that is wanting, or that impairs excellence; a failing; a defect; a blemish. \ (n.) A moral failing; a defect or dereliction from duty; a deviation from propriety; an offense less serious than a crime. \ (n.) A dislocation of the strata of the vein. \ (n.) In coal seams, coal rendered worthless by impurities in the seam; as, slate fault, dirt fault, etc. \ (n.) A lost scent; act of losing the scent. \ (n.) Failure to serve the ball into the proper court. \ (v. t.) To charge with a fault; to accuse; to find fault with; to blame. \ (v. t.) To interrupt the continuity of (rock strata) by displacement along a plane of fracture; -- chiefly used in the p. p., the coal beds are badly faulted. \ (v. i.) To err; to blunder, to commit a fault; to do wrong. \ (n.) A defective point in an electric circuit due to a crossing of the parts of the conductor, or to contact with another conductor or the earth, or to a break in the circuit. \ (n.) A dislocation caused by a slipping of rock masses along a plane of facture; also, the dislocated structure resulting from such slipping.
ins favor (n.) Kind regard; propitious aspect; countenance; friendly disposition; kindness; good will. \ (n.) The act of countenancing, or the condition of being countenanced, or regarded propitiously; support; promotion; befriending. \ (n.) A kind act or office; kindness done or granted; benevolence shown by word or deed; an act of grace or good will, as distinct from justice or remuneration. \ (n.) Mildness or mitigation of punishment; lenity. \ (n.) The object of regard; person or thing favored. \ (n.) A gift or represent; something bestowed as an evidence of good will; a token of love; a knot of ribbons; something worn as a token of affection; as, a marriage favor is a bunch or knot of white ribbons or white flowers worn at a wedding. \ (n.) Appearance; look; face. \ (n.) Partiality; bias. \ (n.) A letter or epistle; -- so called in civility or compliment, your favor of yesterday is received. \ (n.) Love locks. \ (n.) To regard with kindness; to support; to aid, or to have the disposition to aid, or to wish success to; to be propitious to; to countenance; to treat with consideration or tenderness; to show partiality or unfair bias towards. \ (n.) To afford advantages for success to; to facilitate, a weak place favored the entrance of the enemy. \ (n.) To resemble in features; to have the aspect or looks of, the child favors his father.
ins favorite (n.) A person or thing regarded with peculiar favor; one treated with partiality; one preferred above others; especially, one unduly loved, trusted, and enriched with favors by a person of high rank or authority. \ (n.) Short curls dangling over the temples; -- fashionable in the reign of Charles II. \ (n.) The competitor (as a horse in a race) that is judged most likely to win; the competitor standing highest in the betting. \ (a.) Regarded with particular affection, esteem, or preference; as, a favorite walk; a favorite child.
ins fear v. to be afraid; to worry that something bad is near or may happen ("He feared falling down."); n. a strong emotion when there is danger or trouble ("He had a fear that he would fall down.") \ (n.) A variant of Fere, a mate, a companion. \ (n.) A painful emotion or passion excited by the expectation of evil, or the apprehension of impending danger; apprehension; anxiety; solicitude; alarm; dread. \ (n.) Apprehension of incurring, or solicitude to avoid, God's wrath; the trembling and awful reverence felt toward the Supreme Belng. \ (n.) Respectful reverence for men of authority or worth. \ (n.) That which causes, or which is the object of, apprehension or alarm; source or occasion of terror; danger; dreadfulness. \ (n.) To feel a painful apprehension of; to be afraid of; to consider or expect with emotion of alarm or solicitude. \ (n.) To have a reverential awe of; to solicitous to avoid the displeasure of. \ (n.) To be anxious or solicitous for. \ (n.) To suspect; to doubt. \ (n.) To affright; to terrify; to drive away or prevent approach of by fear. \ (v. i.) To be in apprehension of evil; to be afraid; to feel anxiety on account of some expected evil.
ins feed v. to give food to \ (imp. & p. p.) of Fee \ (v. t.) To give food to; to supply with nourishment; to satisfy the physical huger of. \ (v. t.) To satisfy; grafity or minister to, as any sense, talent, taste, or desire. \ (v. t.) To fill the wants of; to supply with that which is used or wasted; as, springs feed ponds; the hopper feeds the mill; to feed a furnace with coal. \ (v. t.) To nourish, in a general sense; to foster, strengthen, develop, and guard. \ (v. t.) To graze; to cause to be cropped by feeding, as herbage by cattle, if grain is too forward in autumn, feed it with sheep. \ (v. t.) To give for food, especially to animals; to furnish for consumption, to feed out turnips to the cows; to feed water to a steam boiler. \ (v. t.) To supply (the material to be operated upon) to a machine, to feed paper to a printing press. \ (v. t.) To produce progressive operation upon or with (as in wood and metal working machines, so that the work moves to the cutting tool, or the tool to the work). \ (v. i.) To take food; to eat. \ (v. i.) To subject by eating; to satisfy the appetite; to feed one's self (upon something); to prey; -- with on or upon. \ (v. i.) To be nourished, strengthened, or satisfied, as if by food. \ (v. i.) To place cattle to feed; to pasture; to graze. \ (n.) That which is eaten; esp., food for beasts; fodder; pasture; hay; grain, ground or whole, the best feed for sheep. \ (n.) A grazing or pasture ground. \ (n.) An allowance of provender given to a horse, cow, etc.; a meal, a feed of corn or oats. \ (n.) A meal, or the act of eating. \ (n.) The water supplied to steam boilers. \ (n.) The motion, or act, of carrying forward the stuff to be operated upon, as cloth to the needle in a sewing machine; or of producing progressive operation upon any material or object in a machine, in a turning lathe, by moving the cutting tool along or in the work. \ (n.) The supply of material to a machine, as water to a steam boiler, coal to a furnace, or grain to a run of stones. \ (n.) The mechanism by which the action of feeding is produced; a feed motion.
ins fellow (n.) A companion; a comrade; an associate; a partner; a sharer. \ (n.) A man without good breeding or worth; an ignoble or mean man. \ (n.) An equal in power, rank, character, etc. \ (n.) One of a pair, or of two things used together or suited to each other; a mate; the male. \ (n.) A person; an individual. \ (n.) In the English universities, a scholar who is appointed to a foundation called a fellowship, which gives a title to certain perquisites and privileges. \ (n.) In an American college or university, a member of the corporation which manages its business interests; also, a graduate appointed to a fellowship, who receives the income of the foundation. \ (n.) A member of a literary or scientific society; as, a Fellow of the Royal Society. \ (v. t.) To suit with; to pair with; to match.
ins female n. a woman or girl; the sex that gives birth; ad. of or about women \ (n.) An individual of the sex which conceives and brings forth young, or (in a wider sense) which has an ovary and produces ova. \ (n.) A plant which produces only that kind of reproductive organs which are capable of developing into fruit after impregnation or fertilization; a pistillate plant. \ (a.) Belonging to the sex which conceives and gives birth to young, or (in a wider sense) which produces ova; not male. \ (a.) Belonging to an individual of the female sex; characteristic of woman; feminine; as, female tenderness. \ (a.) Having pistils and no stamens; pistillate; or, in cryptogamous plants, capable of receiving fertilization.
ins fence n. something around an area of land to keep animals or people in or out \ (n.) That which fends off attack or danger; a defense; a protection; a cover; security; shield. \ (n.) An inclosure about a field or other space, or about any object; especially, an inclosing structure of wood, iron, or other material, intended to prevent intrusion from without or straying from within. \ (n.) A projection on the bolt, which passes through the tumbler gates in locking and unlocking. \ (n.) Self-defense by the use of the sword; the art and practice of fencing and sword play; hence, skill in debate and repartee. See Fencing. \ (n.) A receiver of stolen goods, or a place where they are received. \ (v. t.) To fend off danger from; to give security to; to protect; to guard. \ (v. t.) To inclose with a fence or other protection; to secure by an inclosure. \ (v. i.) To make a defense; to guard one's self of anything, as against an attack; to give protection or security, as by a fence. \ (v. i.) To practice the art of attack and defense with the sword or with the foil, esp. with the smallsword, using the point only. \ (v. i.) Hence, to fight or dispute in the manner of fencers, that is, by thrusting, guarding, parrying, etc.
ins festival (a.) Pertaining to a fest; festive; festal; appropriate to a festival; joyous; mirthful.
ins fifteenth (a.) Next in order after the fourteenth; -- the ordinal of fifteen. \ (a.) Consisting of one of fifteen equal parts or divisions of a thing. \ (n.) One of fifteen equal parts or divisions; the quotient of a unit divided by fifteen. \ (n.) A species of tax upon personal property formerly laid on towns, boroughs, etc., in England, being one fifteenth part of what the personal property in each town, had been valued at. \ (n.) A stop in an organ tuned two octaves above the diaposon. \ (n.) An interval consisting of two octaves.
ins fifth (a.) Next in order after the fourth; -- the ordinal of five. \ (a.) Consisting of one of five equal divisions of a thing. \ (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by five; one of five equal parts; a fifth part. \ (n.) The interval of three tones and a semitone, embracing five diatonic degrees of the scale; the dominant of any key.
ins fiftieth (a.) Next in order after the forty-ninth; -- the ordinal of fifty. \ (a.) Consisting of one of fifty equal parts or divisions. \ (n.) One of fifty equal parts; the quotient of a unit divided by fifty.
ins figure (n.) The form of anything; shape; outline; appearance. \ (n.) The representation of any form, as by drawing, painting, modeling, carving, embroidering, etc.; especially, a representation of the human body; as, a figure in bronze; a figure cut in marble. \ (n.) A pattern in cloth, paper, or other manufactured article; a design wrought out in a fabric, the muslin was of a pretty figure. \ (n.) A diagram or drawing; made to represent a magnitude or the relation of two or more magnitudes; a surface or space inclosed on all sides; -- called superficial when inclosed by lines, and solid when inclosed by surface; any arrangement made up of points, lines, angles, surfaces, etc. \ (n.) The appearance or impression made by the conduct or carrer of a person, a sorry figure. \ (n.) Distinguished appearance; magnificence; conspicuous representation; splendor; show. \ (n.) A character or symbol representing a number; a numeral; a digit, 1, 2,3, etc. \ (n.) Value, as expressed in numbers; price, the goods are estimated or sold at a low figure. \ (n.) A person, thing, or action, conceived of as analogous to another person, of which it thus becomes a type or representative. \ (n.) A mode of expressing abstract or immaterial ideas by words which suggest pictures or images from the physical world; pictorial language; a trope; hence, any deviation from the plainest form of statement. \ (n.) The form of a syllogism with respect to the relative position of the middle term. \ (n.) Any one of the several regular steps or movements made by a dancer. \ (n.) A horoscope; the diagram of the aspects of the astrological houses. \ (n.) Any short succession of notes, either as melody or as a group of chords, which produce a single complete and distinct impression. \ (n.) A form of melody or accompaniment kept up through a strain or passage; a musical or motive; a florid embellishment. \ (n.) To represent by a figure, as to form or mold; to make an image of, either palpable or ideal; also, to fashion into a determinate form; to shape. \ (n.) To embellish with design; to adorn with figures. \ (n.) To indicate by numerals, to compute. \ (n.) To represent by a metaphor; to signify or symbolize. \ (n.) To prefigure; to foreshow. \ (n.) To write over or under the bass, as figures or other characters, in order to indicate the accompanying chords. \ (n.) To embellish. \ (v. t.) To make a figure; to be distinguished or conspicious, the envoy figured at court. \ (v. t.) To calculate; to contrive; to scheme, he is figuring to secure the nomination.
ins fill v. to put or pour something into a container until there is space for no more \ (n.) One of the thills or shafts of a carriage. \ (a.) To make full; to supply with as much as can be held or contained; to put or pour into, till no more can be received; to occupy the whole capacity of. \ (a.) To furnish an abudant supply to; to furnish with as mush as is desired or desirable; to occupy the whole of; to swarm in or overrun. \ (a.) To fill or supply fully with food; to feed; to satisfy. \ (a.) To possess and perform the duties of; to officiate in, as an incumbent; to occupy; to hold; as, a king fills a throne; the president fills the office of chief magistrate; the speaker of the House fills the chair. \ (a.) To supply with an incumbent, to fill an office or a vacancy. \ (a.) To press and dilate, as a sail, the wind filled the sails. \ (a.) To trim (a yard) so that the wind shall blow on the after side of the sails. \ (a.) To make an embankment in, or raise the level of (a low place), with earth or gravel. \ (v. i.) To become full; to have the whole capacity occupied; to have an abundant supply; to be satiated, corn fills well in a warm season; the sail fills with the wind. \ (v. i.) To fill a cup or glass for drinking. \ (v. t.) A full supply, as much as supplies want; as much as gives complete satisfaction. \ (n.) That which fills; filling; specif., an embankment, as in railroad construction, to fill a hollow or ravine; also, the place which is to be filled.
ins final ad. at the end; last \ (a.) Pertaining to the end or conclusion; last; terminating; ultimate; as, the final day of a school term. \ (a.) Conclusive; decisive, a final judgment; the battle of Waterloo brought the contest to a final issue. \ (a.) Respecting an end or object to be gained; respecting the purpose or ultimate end in view.
ins finally (adv.) At the end or conclusion; ultimately; lastly; as, the contest was long, but the Romans finally conquered. \ (adv.) Completely; beyond recovery.
ins firm ad. not easily moved or changed ("She is firm in her opinion.") \ (superl.) Fixed; hence, closely compressed; compact; substantial; hard; solid; -- applied to the matter of bodies; as, firm flesh; firm muscles, firm wood. \ (superl.) Not easily excited or disturbed; unchanging in purpose; fixed; steady; constant; stable; unshaken; not easily changed in feelings or will; strong, a firm believer; a firm friend; a firm adherent. \ (superl.) Solid; -- opposed to fluid, firm land. \ (superl.) Indicating firmness, a firm tread; a firm countenance. \ (a.) The name, title, or style, under which a company transacts business; a partnership of two or more persons; a commercial house, the firm of Hope & Co. \ (a.) To fix; to settle; to confirm; to establish. \ (a.) To fix or direct with firmness.
ins fisherman (n.) One whose occupation is to catch fish. \ (n.) A ship or vessel employed in the business of taking fish, as in the cod fishery.
ins fishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fish \ (n.) The act, practice, or art of one who fishes. \ (n.) A fishery. \ (n.) Pertaining to fishing; used in fishery; engaged in fishing; as, fishing boat; fishing tackle; fishing village.
ins fit v. to be of the correct size or shape ("These shoes fit my feet.") \ imp. & p. p. of Fight. \ (n.) In Old English, a song; a strain; a canto or portion of a ballad; a passus. \ (superl.) Adapted to an end, object, or design; suitable by nature or by art; suited by character, qualitties, circumstances, education, etc.; qualified; competent; worthy. \ (superl.) Prepared; ready. \ (superl.) Conformed to a standart of duty, properiety, or taste; convenient; meet; becoming; proper. \ (v. t.) To make fit or suitable; to adapt to the purpose intended; to qualify; to put into a condition of readiness or preparation. \ (v. t.) To bring to a required form and size; to shape aright; to adapt to a model; to adjust; -- said especially of the work of a carpenter, machinist, tailor, etc. \ (v. t.) To supply with something that is suitable or fit, or that is shaped and adjusted to the use required. \ (v. t.) To be suitable to; to answer the requirements of; to be correctly shaped and adjusted to; as, if the coat fits you, put it on. \ (v. i.) To be proper or becoming. \ (v. i.) To be adjusted to a particular shape or size; to suit; to be adapted, his coat fits very well. \ (n.) The quality of being fit; adjustment; adaptedness; as of dress to the person of the wearer. \ (n.) The coincidence of parts that come in contact. \ (n.) The part of an object upon which anything fits tightly. \ (n.) A stroke or blow. \ (n.) A sudden and violent attack of a disorder; a stroke of disease, as of epilepsy or apoplexy, which produces convulsions or unconsciousness; a convulsion; a paroxysm; hence, a period of exacerbation of a disease; in general, an attack of disease, a fit of sickness. \ (n.) A mood of any kind which masters or possesses one for a time; a temporary, absorbing affection, a fit melancholy, of passion, or of laughter. \ (n.) A passing humor; a caprice; a sudden and unusual effort, activity, or motion, followed by relaxation or insction; an impulse and irregular action. \ (n.) A darting point; a sudden emission.
ins fix v. to make good or right again \ (a.) Fixed; solidified. \ (v. t.) To make firm, stable, or fast; to set or place permanently; to fasten immovably; to establish; to implant; to secure; to make definite. \ (v. t.) To hold steadily; to direct unwaveringly; to fasten, as the eye on an object, the attention on a speaker. \ (v. t.) To transfix; to pierce. \ (v. t.) To render (an impression) permanent by treating with such applications as will make it insensible to the action of light. \ (v. t.) To put in order; to arrange; to dispose of; to adjust; to set to rights; to set or place in the manner desired or most suitable; hence, to repair; as, to fix the clothes; to fix the furniture of a room. \ (v. t.) To line the hearth of (a puddling furnace) with fettling. \ (v. i.) To become fixed; to settle or remain permanently; to cease from wandering; to rest. \ (v. i.) To become firm, so as to resist volatilization; to cease to flow or be fluid; to congeal; to become hard and malleable, as a metallic substance. \ (n.) A position of difficulty or embarassment; predicament; dilemma. \ (n.) fettling.
ins flag n. a piece of colored cloth used to represent a nation, government or organization \ (v. i.) To hang loose without stiffness; to bend down, as flexible bodies; to be loose, yielding, limp. \ (v. i.) To droop; to grow spiritless; to lose vigor; to languish; as, the spirits flag; the streugth flags. \ (v. t.) To let droop; to suffer to fall, or let fall, into feebleness, to flag the wings. \ (v. t.) To enervate; to exhaust the vigor or elasticity of. \ (n.) That which flags or hangs down loosely. \ (n.) A cloth usually bearing a device or devices and used to indicate nationality, party, etc., or to give or ask information; -- commonly attached to a staff to be waved by the wind; a standard; a banner; an ensign; the colors, the national flag; a military or a naval flag. \ (n.) A group of feathers on the lower part of the legs of certain hawks, owls, etc. \ (n.) A group of elongated wing feathers in certain hawks. \ (n.) The bushy tail of a dog, as of a setter. \ (v. t.) To signal to with a flag, to flag a train. \ (v. t.) To convey, as a message, by means of flag signals, to flag an order to troops or vessels at a distance. \ (n.) An aquatic plant, with long, ensiform leaves, belonging to either of the genera Iris and Acorus. \ (v. t.) To furnish or deck out with flags. \ (n.) A flat stone used for paving. \ (n.) Any hard, evenly stratified sandstone, which splits into layers suitable for flagstones. \ (v. t.) To lay with flags of flat stones. \ (n.) One of the wing feathers next the body of a bird; -- called also flag feather. \ (v. t.) To decoy (game) by waving a flag, handkerchief, or the like to arouse the animal's curiosity.
ins flight (n.) The act or flying; a passing through the air by the help of wings; volitation; mode or style of flying. \ (n.) The act of fleeing; the act of running away, to escape or expected evil; hasty departure. \ (n.) Lofty elevation and excursion;a mounting; a soa/ing; as, a flight of imagination, ambition, folly. \ (n.) A number of beings or things passing through the air together; especially, a flock of birds flying in company; the birds that fly or migrate together; the birds produced in one season, a flight of arrows. \ (n.) A series of steps or stairs from one landing to another. \ (n.) A kind of arrow for the longbow; also, the sport of shooting with it. See Shaft. \ (n.) The husk or glume of oats.
ins float v. to be on water without sinking; to move or be moved gently on water or through air \ (v. i.) Anything which floats or rests on the surface of a fluid, as to sustain weight, or to indicate the height of the surface, or mark the place of, something. \ (v. i.) A mass of timber or boards fastened together, and conveyed down a stream by the current; a raft. \ (v. i.) The hollow, metallic ball of a self-acting faucet, which floats upon the water in a cistern or boiler. \ (v. i.) The cork or quill used in angling, to support the bait line, and indicate the bite of a fish. \ (v. i.) Anything used to buoy up whatever is liable to sink; an inflated bag or pillow used by persons learning to swim; a life preserver. \ (v. i.) A float board. See Float board (below). \ (v. i.) A contrivance for affording a copious stream of water to the heated surface of an object of large bulk, as an anvil or die. \ (v. i.) The act of flowing; flux; flow. \ (v. i.) A quantity of earth, eighteen feet square and one foot deep. \ (v. i.) The trowel or tool with which the floated coat of plastering is leveled and smoothed. \ (v. i.) A polishing block used in marble working; a runner. \ (v. i.) A single-cut file for smoothing; a tool used by shoemakers for rasping off pegs inside a shoe. \ (v. i.) A coal cart. \ (v. i.) The sea; a wave. See Flote, n. \ (n.) To rest on the surface of any fluid; to swim; to be buoyed up. \ (n.) To move quietly or gently on the water, as a raft; to drift along; to move or glide without effort or impulse on the surface of a fluid, or through the air. \ (v. t.) To cause to float; to cause to rest or move on the surface of a fluid; as, the tide floated the ship into the harbor. \ (v. t.) To flood; to overflow; to cover with water. \ (v. t.) To pass over and level the surface of with a float while the plastering is kept wet. \ (v. t.) To support and sustain the credit of, as a commercial scheme or a joint-stock company, so as to enable it to go into, or continue in, operation.
ins flood v. to cover with water; n. the movement of water out of a river, lake or ocean onto land \ (v. i.) A great flow of water; a body of moving water; the flowing stream, as of a river; especially, a body of water, rising, swelling, and overflowing land not usually thus covered; a deluge; a freshet; an inundation. \ (v. i.) The flowing in of the tide; the semidiurnal swell or rise of water in the ocean; -- opposed to ebb; as, young flood; high flood. \ (v. i.) A great flow or stream of any fluid substance, a flood of light; a flood of lava; hence, a great quantity widely diffused; an overflowing; a superabundance, a flood of bank notes; a flood of paper currency. \ (v. i.) Menstrual disharge; menses. \ (v. t.) To overflow; to inundate; to deluge, the swollen river flooded the valley. \ (v. t.) To cause or permit to be inundated; to fill or cover with water or other fluid, to flood arable land for irrigation; to fill to excess or to its full capacity, to flood a country with a depreciated currency.
ins flow v. to move like a liquid \ imp. sing. of Fly, v. i. \ (v. i.) To move with a continual change of place among the particles or parts, as a fluid; to change place or circulate, as a liquid; as, rivers flow from springs and lakes; tears flow from the eyes. \ (v. i.) To become liquid; to melt. \ (v. i.) To proceed; to issue forth, wealth flows from industry and economy. \ (v. i.) To glide along smoothly, without harshness or asperties, a flowing period; flowing numbers; to sound smoothly to the ear; to be uttered easily. \ (v. i.) To have or be in abundance; to abound; to full, so as to run or flow over; to be copious. \ (v. i.) To hang loose and waving, a flowing mantle; flowing locks. \ (v. i.) To rise, as the tide; -- opposed to ebb, the tide flows twice in twenty-four hours. \ (v. i.) To discharge blood in excess from the uterus. \ (v. t.) To cover with water or other liquid; to overflow; to inundate; to flood. \ (v. t.) To cover with varnish. \ (n.) A stream of water or other fluid; a current, a flow of water; a flow of blood. \ (n.) A continuous movement of something abundant, a flow of words. \ (n.) Any gentle, gradual movement or procedure of thought, diction, music, or the like, resembling the quiet, steady movement of a river; a stream. \ (n.) The tidal setting in of the water from the ocean to the shore. See Ebb and flow, under Ebb. \ (n.) A low-lying piece of watery land; -- called also flow moss and flow bog.
ins follow v. to come or go after; to accept the rule or power of; to obey \ (v. t.) To go or come after; to move behind in the same path or direction; hence, to go with (a leader, guide, etc.); to accompany; to attend. \ (v. t.) To endeavor to overtake; to go in pursuit of; to chase; to pursue; to prosecute. \ (v. t.) To accept as authority; to adopt the opinions of; to obey; to yield to; to take as a rule of action; as, to follow good advice. \ (v. t.) To copy after; to take as an example. \ (v. t.) To succeed in order of time, rank, or office. \ (v. t.) To result from, as an effect from a cause, or an inference from a premise. \ (v. t.) To watch, as a receding object; to keep the eyes fixed upon while in motion; to keep the mind upon while in progress, as a speech, musical performance, etc.; also, to keep up with; to understand the meaning, connection, or force of, as of a course of thought or argument. \ (v. t.) To walk in, as a road or course; to attend upon closely, as a profession or calling. \ (v. i.) To go or come after; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb: To pursue; to attend; to be a result; to imitate. \ (n.) The art or process of following; specif., in some games, as billiards, a stroke causing a ball to follow another ball after hitting it. Also used adjectively, follow shot.
ins following (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Follow \ (n.) One's followers, adherents, or dependents, collectively. \ (n.) Vocation; business; profession. \ (a.) Next after; succeeding; ensuing; as, the assembly was held on the following day. \ (a.) (In the field of a telescope) In the direction from which stars are apparently moving (in consequence of the earth's rotation), a small star, north following or south following. In the direction toward which stars appear to move is called preceding.
ins foolish (a.) Marked with, or exhibiting, folly; void of understanding; weak in intellect; without judgment or discretion; silly; unwise. \ (a.) Such as a fool would do; proceeding from weakness of mind or silliness; exhibiting a want of judgment or discretion; as, a foolish act. \ (a.) Absurd; ridiculous; despicable; contemptible.
ins force v. to make someone do something or make something happen by using power; n. power, strength; strength used against a person or object; military power of a nation; a military group \ (v. t.) To stuff; to lard; to farce. \ (n.) A waterfall; a cascade. \ (n.) Strength or energy of body or mind; active power; vigor; might; often, an unusual degree of strength or energy; capacity of exercising an influence or producing an effect; especially, power to persuade, or convince, or impose obligation; pertinency; validity; special signification; as, the force of an appeal, an argument, a contract, or a term. \ (n.) Power exerted against will or consent; compulsory power; violence; coercion. \ (n.) Strength or power for war; hence, a body of land or naval combatants, with their appurtenances, ready for action; -- an armament; troops; warlike array; -- often in the plural, a body of men prepared for action in other ways, the laboring force of a plantation. \ (n.) Strength or power exercised without law, or contrary to law, upon persons or things; violence. \ (n.) Validity; efficacy. \ (n.) Any action between two bodies which changes, or tends to change, their relative condition as to rest or motion; or, more generally, which changes, any physical relation between them, whether mechanical, thermal, chemical, electrical, magnetic, or of any other kind, the force of gravity; cohesive force; centrifugal force. \ (n.) To constrain to do or to forbear, by the exertion of a power not resistible; to compel by physical, moral, or intellectual means; to coerce, masters force slaves to labor. \ (n.) To compel, as by strength of evidence, to force conviction on the mind. \ (n.) To do violence to; to overpower, or to compel by violence to one;s will, to ravish; to violate; to commit rape upon. \ (n.) To obtain or win by strength; to take by violence or struggle; specifically, to capture by assault; to storm, as a fortress. \ (n.) To impel, drive, wrest, extort, get, etc., by main strength or violence; -- with a following adverb, as along, away, from, into, through, out, etc. \ (n.) To put in force; to cause to be executed; to make binding; to enforce. \ (n.) To exert to the utmost; to urge, to strain; to urge to excessive, unnatural, or untimely action; to produce by unnatural effort, to force a consient or metaphor; to force a laugh; to force fruits. \ (n.) To compel (an adversary or partner) to trump a trick by leading a suit of which he has none. \ (n.) To provide with forces; to reenforce; to strengthen by soldiers; to man; to garrison. \ (n.) To allow the force of; to value; to care for. \ (v. i.) To use violence; to make violent effort; to strive; to endeavor. \ (v. i.) To make a difficult matter of anything; to labor; to hesitate, to force of, to make much account of; to regard. \ (v. i.) To be of force, importance, or weight; to matter.
ins foreign ad. of, about or from another nation; not from one's own place or country \ (a.) Outside; extraneous; separated; alien; as, a foreign country; a foreign government. \ (a.) Not native or belonging to a certain country; born in or belonging to another country, nation, sovereignty, or locality, a foreign language; foreign fruits. \ (a.) Remote; distant; strange; not belonging; not connected; not pertaining or pertient; not appropriate; not harmonious; not agreeable; not congenial; -- with to or from, foreign to the purpose; foreign to one's nature. \ (a.) Held at a distance; excluded; exiled.
ins foreigner (n.) A person belonging to or owning allegiance to a foreign country; one not native in the country or jurisdiction under consideration, or not naturalized there; an alien; a stranger.
ins forever (adv.) Through eternity; through endless ages, eternally. \ (adv.) At all times; always.
ins forgive v. to pardon; to excuse; to remove guilt \ (v. t.) To give wholly; to make over without reservation; to resign. \ (v. t.) To give up resentment or claim to requital on account of (an offense or wrong); to remit the penalty of; to pardon; -- said in reference to the act forgiven. \ (v. t.) To cease to feel resentment against, on account of wrong committed; to give up claim to requital from or retribution upon (an offender); to absolve; -- said of the person offending.
ins form v. to make; to start; to shape ("They formed a swim team."); n. a kind ("Swimming is a form of exercise.")
ins formal (n.) See Methylal. \ (a.) Belonging to the form, shape, frame, external appearance, or organization of a thing. \ (a.) Belonging to the constitution of a thing, as distinguished from the matter composing it; having the power of making a thing what it is; constituent; essential; pertaining to or depending on the forms, so called, of the human intellect. \ (a.) Done in due form, or with solemnity; according to regular method; not incidental, sudden or irregular; express; as, he gave his formal consent. \ (a.) Devoted to, or done in accordance with, forms or rules; punctilious; regular; orderly; methodical; of a prescribed form; exact; prim; stiff; ceremonious, a man formal in his dress, his gait, his conversation. \ (a.) Having the form or appearance without the substance or essence; external, formal duty; formal worship; formal courtesy, etc. \ (a.) Dependent in form; conventional. \ (a.) Sound; normal.
ins former ad. earlier in time; not now \ (n.) One who forms; a maker; a creator. \ (n.) A shape around which an article is to be shaped, molded, woven wrapped, pasted, or otherwise constructed. \ (n.) A templet, pattern, or gauge by which an article is shaped. \ (n.) A cutting die. \ (a.) Preceding in order of time; antecedent; previous; prior; earlier; hence, ancient; long past. \ (a.) Near the beginning; preceeding; as, the former part of a discourse or argument. \ (a.) Earlier, as between two things mentioned together; first mentioned.
ins fortieth (a.) Following the thirty-ninth, or preceded by thirty-nine units, things, or parts. \ (a.) Constituting one of forty equal parts into which anything is divided. \ (n.) One of forty equal parts into which one whole is divided; the quotient of a unit divided by forty; one next in order after the thirty-ninth.
ins fortunate (n.) Coming by good luck or favorable chance; bringing some good thing not foreseen as certain; presaging happiness; auspicious; as, a fortunate event; a fortunate concurrence of circumstances; a fortunate investment. \ (n.) Receiving same unforeseen or unexpected good, or some good which was not dependent on one's own skill or efforts; favored with good forune; lucky.
ins forward ad. the direction in front of; toward the front \ (n.) An agreement; a covenant; a promise. \ (adv.) Alt. of Forwards \ (a.) Near, or at the fore part; in advance of something else; as, the forward gun in a ship, or the forward ship in a fleet. \ (a.) Ready; prompt; strongly inclined; in an ill sense, overready; to hasty. \ (a.) Ardent; eager; earnest, less reserved or modest than is proper; bold; confident, the boy is too forward for his years. \ (a.) Advanced beyond the usual degree; advanced for season, the grass is forward, or forward for the season; we have a forward spring. \ (v. t.) To help onward; to advance; to promote; to accelerate; to quicken; to hasten, to forward the growth of a plant; to forward one in improvement. \ (v. t.) To send forward; to send toward the place of destination; to transmit, to forward a letter.
ins fourteenth (a.) Next in order after the thirteenth; as, the fourteenth day of the month. \ (a.) Making or constituting one of fourteen equal parts into which anything may be derived. \ (n.) One of fourteen equal parts into which one whole may be divided; the quotient of a unit divided by fourteen; one next after the thirteenth. \ (n.) The octave of the seventh.
ins fourth (a.) Next in order after the third; the ordinal of four. \ (a.) Forming one of four equal parts into which anything may be divided. \ (n.) One of four equal parts into which one whole may be divided; the quotient of a unit divided by four; one coming next in order after the third. \ (n.) The interval of two tones and a semitone, embracing four diatonic degrees of the scale; the subdominant of any key.
ins freedom n. the condition of being free \ (n.) The state of being free; exemption from the power and control of another; liberty; independence. \ (n.) Privileges; franchises; immunities. \ (n.) Exemption from necessity, in choise and action; as, the freedom of the will. \ (n.) Ease; facility, he speaks or acts with freedom. \ (n.) Frankness; openness; unreservedness. \ (n.) Improper familiarity; violation of the rules of decorum; license. \ (n.) Generosity; liberality.
ins freeze v. to cause or to become very cold; to make or to become hard by cold \ (n.) A frieze. \ (v. i.) To become congealed by cold; to be changed from a liquid to a solid state by the abstraction of heat; to be hardened into ice or a like solid body. \ (v. i.) To become chilled with cold, or as with cold; to suffer loss of animation or life by lack of heat; as, the blood freezes in the veins. \ (v. t.) To congeal; to harden into ice; to convert from a fluid to a solid form by cold, or abstraction of heat. \ (v. t.) To cause loss of animation or life in, from lack of heat; to give the sensation of cold to; to chill. \ (n.) The act of congealing, or the state of being congealed.
ins friendship (n.) The state of being friends; friendly relation, or attachment, to a person, or between persons; affection arising from mutual esteem and good will; friendliness; amity; good will. \ (n.) Kindly aid; help; assistance, \ (n.) Aptness to unite; conformity; affinity; harmony; correspondence.
ins fuel n. any substance burned to create heat or power \ (n.) Any matter used to produce heat by burning; that which feeds fire; combustible matter used for fires, as wood, coal, peat, etc. \ (n.) Anything that serves to feed or increase passion or excitement. \ (v. t.) To feed with fuel. \ (v. t.) To store or furnish with fuel or firing.
ins furniture (v. t.) That with which anything is furnished or supplied; supplies; outfit; equipment. \ (v. t.) Articles used for convenience or decoration in a house or apartment, as tables, chairs, bedsteads, sofas, carpets, curtains, pictures, vases, etc. \ (v. t.) The necessary appendages to anything, as to a machine, a carriage, a ship, etc. \ (v. t.) The masts and rigging of a ship. \ (v. t.) The mountings of a gun. \ (v. t.) Builders' hardware such as locks, door and window trimmings. \ (v. t.) Pieces of wood or metal of a lesser height than the type, placed around the pages or other matter in a form, and, with the quoins, serving to secure the form in its place in the chase. \ (v. t.) A mixed or compound stop in an organ; -- sometimes called mixture.
ins further (adv.) To a greater distance; in addition; moreover. See Farther. \ (superl.) More remote; at a greater distance; more in advance; farther; as, the further end of the field. See Farther. \ (superl.) Beyond; additional, a further reason for this opinion; nothing further to suggest. \ (adv.) To help forward; to promote; to advance; to forward; to help or assist.
ins gain v. to get possession of; to get more; to increase \ (n.) A square or beveled notch cut out of a girder, binding joist, or other timber which supports a floor beam, so as to receive the end of the floor beam. \ (a.) Convenient; suitable; direct; near; handy; dexterous; easy; profitable; cheap; respectable. \ (v. t.) That which is gained, obtained, or acquired, as increase, profit, advantage, or benefit; -- opposed to loss. \ (v. t.) The obtaining or amassing of profit or valuable possessions; acquisition; accumulation. \ (n.) To get, as profit or advantage; to obtain or acquire by effort or labor; as, to gain a good living. \ (n.) To come off winner or victor in; to be successful in; to obtain by competition, to gain a battle; to gain a case at law; to gain a prize. \ (n.) To draw into any interest or party; to win to one's side; to conciliate. \ (n.) To reach; to attain to; to arrive at, to gain the top of a mountain; to gain a good harbor. \ (n.) To get, incur, or receive, as loss, harm, or damage. \ (v. i.) To have or receive advantage or profit; to acquire gain; to grow rich; to advance in interest, health, or happiness; to make progress, the sick man gains daily.
ins garage (n.) A place for housing automobiles. \ (n.) A shed for housing an airship or flying machine; a hangar. \ (n.) A side way or space in a canal to enable vessels to pass each other; a siding. \ (v. t.) To keep in a garage.
ins gate (n.) A large door or passageway in the wall of a city, of an inclosed field or place, or of a grand edifice, etc.; also, the movable structure of timber, metal, by which the passage can be closed. \ (n.) An opening for passage in any inclosing wall, fence, or barrier; or the suspended framework which closes or opens a passage. Also, figuratively, a means or way of entrance or of exit. \ (n.) A door, valve, or other device, for stopping the passage of water through a dam, lock, pipe, etc. \ (n.) The places which command the entrances or access; hence, place of vantage; power; might. \ (n.) In a lock tumbler, the opening for the stump of the bolt to pass through or into. \ (n.) The channel or opening through which metal is poured into the mold; the ingate. \ (n.) The waste piece of metal cast in the opening; a sprue or sullage piece. \ (v. t.) To supply with a gate. \ (v. t.) To punish by requiring to be within the gates at an earlier hour than usual. \ (n.) A way; a path; a road; a street (as in Highgate). \ (n.) Manner; gait.
ins gather v. to bring or come together into a group or place; to collect \ (v. t.) To bring together; to collect, as a number of separate things, into one place, or into one aggregate body; to assemble; to muster; to congregate. \ (v. t.) To pick out and bring together from among what is of less value, as a harvest; to harvest; to cull; to pick off; to pluck. \ (v. t.) To accumulate by collecting and saving little by little; to amass; to gain; to heap up. \ (v. t.) To bring closely together the parts or particles of; to contract; to compress; to bring together in folds or plaits, as a garment; also, to draw together, as a piece of cloth by a thread; to pucker; to plait; as, to gather a ruffle. \ (v. t.) To derive, or deduce, as an inference, as a conclusion, from circumstances that suggest, or arguments that prove; to infer; to conclude. \ (v. t.) To gain; to win. \ (v. t.) To bring together, or nearer together, in masonry, as where the width of a fireplace is rapidly diminished to the width of the flue, or the like. \ (v. t.) To haul in; to take up, to gather the slack of a rope. \ (v. i.) To come together; to unite; to become assembled; to congregate. \ (v. i.) To grow larger by accretion; to increase. \ (v. i.) To concentrate; to come to a head, as a sore, and generate pus, a boil has gathered. \ (v. i.) To collect or bring things together. \ (n.) A plait or fold in cloth, made by drawing a thread through it; a pucker. \ (n.) The inclination forward of the axle journals to keep the wheels from working outward. \ (n.) The soffit or under surface of the masonry required in gathering. See Gather, v. t., 7.
ins general n. a high military leader; ad. without details; affecting or including all or almost all \ (a.) Relating to a genus or kind; pertaining to a whole class or order; as, a general law of animal or vegetable economy. \ (a.) Comprehending many species or individuals; not special or particular; including all particulars, a general inference or conclusion. \ (a.) Not restrained or limited to a precise import; not specific; vague; indefinite; lax in signification, a loose and general expression. \ (a.) Common to many, or the greatest number; widely spread; prevalent; extensive, though not universal, a general opinion; a general custom. \ (a.) Having a relation to all; common to the whole, Adam, our general sire. \ (a.) As a whole; in gross; for the most part. \ (a.) Usual; common, on most occasions, his general habit or method. \ (a.) The whole; the total; that which comprehends or relates to all, or the chief part; -- opposed to particular. \ (a.) One of the chief military officers of a government or country; the commander of an army, of a body of men not less than a brigade. In European armies, the highest military rank next below field marshal. \ (a.) The roll of the drum which calls the troops together, to beat the general. \ (a.) The chief of an order of monks, or of all the houses or congregations under the same rule. \ (a.) The public; the people; the vulgar.
ins generally (adv.) In general; commonly; extensively, though not universally; most frequently. \ (adv.) In a general way, or in general relation; in the main; upon the whole; comprehensively. \ (adv.) Collectively; as a whole; without omissions.
ins gentle ad. soft; kind; not rough or violent \ (superl.) Well-born; of a good family or respectable birth, though not noble. \ (superl.) Quiet and refined in manners; not rough, harsh, or stern; mild; meek; bland; amiable; tender; as, a gentle nature, temper, or disposition; a gentle manner; a gentle address; a gentle voice. \ (superl.) A compellative of respect, consideration, or conciliation, gentle reader. \ (superl.) Not wild, turbulent, or refractory; quiet and docile; tame; peaceable, a gentle horse. \ (superl.) Soft; not violent or rough; not strong, loud, or disturbing; easy; soothing; pacific, a gentle touch; a gentle gallop . \ (n.) One well born; a gentleman. \ (n.) A trained falcon. See Falcon-gentil. \ (n.) A dipterous larva used as fish bait. \ (v. t.) To make genteel; to raise from the vulgar; to ennoble. \ (v. t.) To make smooth, cozy, or agreeable. \ (v. t.) To make kind and docile, as a horse.
ins ghost (n.) The spirit; the soul of man. \ (n.) The disembodied soul; the soul or spirit of a deceased person; a spirit appearing after death; an apparition; a specter. \ (n.) Any faint shadowy semblance; an unsubstantial image; a phantom; a glimmering; as, not a ghost of a chance; the ghost of an idea. \ (n.) A false image formed in a telescope by reflection from the surfaces of one or more lenses. \ (v. i.) To die; to expire. \ (v. t.) To appear to or haunt in the form of an apparition.
ins giant (n.) A man of extraordinari bulk and stature. \ (n.) A person of extraordinary strength or powers, bodily or intellectual. \ (n.) Any animal, plant, or thing, of extraordinary size or power. \ (a.) Like a giant; extraordinary in size, strength, or power; as, giant brothers; a giant son.
ins gift n. something given without cost \ (v. t.) Anything given; anything voluntarily transferred by one person to another without compensation; a present; an offering. \ (v. t.) The act, right, or power of giving or bestowing; as, the office is in the gift of the President. \ (v. t.) A bribe; anything given to corrupt. \ (v. t.) Some quality or endowment given to man by God; a preeminent and special talent or aptitude; power; faculty, the gift of wit; a gift for speaking. \ (v. t.) A voluntary transfer of real or personal property, without any consideration. It can be perfected only by deed, or in case of personal property, by an actual delivery of possession. \ (v. t.) To endow with some power or faculty.
ins gorilla (n.) A large, arboreal, anthropoid ape of West Africa. It is larger than a man, and is remarkable for its massive skeleton and powerful muscles, which give it enormous strength. In some respects its anatomy, more than that of any other ape, except the chimpanzee, resembles that of man.
ins grade (n.) A step or degree in any series, rank, quality, order; relative position or standing; as, grades of military rank; crimes of every grade; grades of flour. \ (n.) The rate of ascent or descent; gradient; deviation from a level surface to an inclined plane; -- usually stated as so many feet per mile, or as one foot rise or fall in so many of horizontal distance, a heavy grade; a grade of twenty feet per mile, or of 1 in 264. \ (n.) A graded ascending, descending, or level portion of a road; a gradient. \ (n.) The result of crossing a native stock with some better breed. If the crossbreed have more than three fourths of the better blood, it is called high grade. \ (v. t.) To arrange in order, steps, or degrees, according to size, etc. \ (v. t.) To reduce to a level, or to an evenly progressive ascent, as the line of a canal or road. \ (v. t.) To cross with some better breed; to improve the blood of. \ (n.) A harsh scraping or cutting; a grating.
ins grammar (n.) The science which treats of the principles of language; the study of forms of speech, and their relations to one another; the art concerned with the right use aud application of the rules of a language, in speaking or writing. \ (n.) The art of speaking or writing with correctness or according to established usage; speech considered with regard to the rules of a grammar. \ (n.) A treatise on the principles of language; a book containing the principles and rules for correctness in speaking or writing. \ (n.) treatise on the elements or principles of any science; as, a grammar of geography. \ (v. i.) To discourse according to the rules of grammar; to use grammar.
ins grand (superl.) Of large size or extent; great; extensive; hence, relatively great; greatest; chief; principal; as, a grand mountain; a grand army; a grand mistake. \ (superl.) Great in size, and fine or imposing in appearance or impression; illustrious, dignifled, or noble (said of persons); majestic, splendid, magnificent, or sublime (said of things), a grand monarch; a grand lord; a grand general; a grand view; a grand conception. \ (superl.) Having higher rank or more dignity, size, or importance than other persons or things of the same name, a grand lodge; a grand vizier; a grand piano, etc. \ (superl.) Standing in the second or some more remote degree of parentage or descent; -- generalIy used in composition, grandfather, grandson, grandchild, etc.
ins granddaughter n. the daughter of a person's daughter or son \ (n.) The daughter of one's son or daughter.
ins grandma (n.) Alt. of Grandmamma
ins grandpa (n.) Alt. of Grandpapa
ins grandson n. the son of a person's daughter or son \ (n.) A son's or daughter's son.
ins grape (n.) A well-known edible berry growing in pendent clusters or bunches on the grapevine. The berries are smooth-skinned, have a juicy pulp, and are cultivated in great quantities for table use and for making wine and raisins. \ (n.) The plant which bears this fruit; the grapevine. \ (n.) A mangy tumor on the leg of a horse. \ (n.) Grapeshot.
ins grateful (a.) Having a due sense of benefits received; kindly disposed toward one from whom a favor has been received; willing to acknowledge and repay, or give thanks for, benefits; as, a grateful heart. \ (a.) Affording pleasure; pleasing to the senses; gratifying; delicious, a grateful present; food grateful to the palate; grateful sleep.
ins greatly (adv.) In a great degree; much. \ (adv.) Nobly; illustriously; magnanimously.
ins greatness (n.) The state, condition, or quality of being great; as, greatness of size, greatness of mind, power, etc. \ (n.) Pride; haughtiness.
ins greeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Greet \ (n.) Expression of kindness or joy; salutation at meeting; a compliment from one absent.
ins guard v. to watch and protect a person, place or thing ("He guards the president."); n. a person or thing that watches or protects ("He is a prison guard.") \ (n.) To protect from danger; to secure against surprise, attack, or injury; to keep in safety; to defend; to shelter; to shield from surprise or attack; to protect by attendance; to accompany for protection; to care for. \ (n.) To keep watch over, in order to prevent escape or restrain from acts of violence, or the like. \ (n.) To protect the edge of, esp. with an ornamental border; hence, to face or ornament with lists, laces, etc. \ (n.) To fasten by binding; to gird. \ (v. i.) To watch by way of caution or defense; to be caution; to be in a state or position of defense or safety; as, careful persons guard against mistakes. \ (v. t.) One who, or that which, guards from injury, danger, exposure, or attack; defense; protection. \ (v. t.) A man, or body of men, stationed to protect or control a person or position; a watch; a sentinel. \ (v. t.) One who has charge of a mail coach or a railway train; a conductor. \ (v. t.) Any fixture or attachment designed to protect or secure against injury, soiling, or defacement, theft or loss \ (v. t.) That part of a sword hilt which protects the hand. \ (v. t.) Ornamental lace or hem protecting the edge of a garment. \ (v. t.) A chain or cord for fastening a watch to one's person or dress. \ (v. t.) A fence or rail to prevent falling from the deck of a vessel. \ (v. t.) An extension of the deck of a vessel beyond the hull; esp., in side-wheel steam vessels, the framework of strong timbers, which curves out on each side beyond the paddle wheel, and protects it and the shaft against collision. \ (v. t.) A plate of metal, beneath the stock, or the lock frame, of a gun or pistol, having a loop, called a bow, to protect the trigger. \ (v. t.) An interleaved strip at the back, as in a scrap book, to guard against its breaking when filled. \ (v. t.) A posture of defense in fencing, and in bayonet and saber exercise. \ (v. t.) An expression or admission intended to secure against objections or censure. \ (v. t.) Watch; heed; care; attention, to keep guard. \ (v. t.) The fibrous sheath which covers the phragmacone of the Belemnites.
ins guess (v. t.) To form an opinion concerning, without knowledge or means of knowledge; to judge of at random; to conjecture. \ (v. t.) To judge or form an opinion of, from reasons that seem preponderating, but are not decisive. \ (v. t.) To solve by a correct conjecture; to conjecture rightly; as, he who guesses the riddle shall have the ring; he has guessed my designs. \ (v. t.) To hit upon or reproduce by memory. \ (v. t.) To think; to suppose; to believe; to imagine; -- followed by an objective clause. \ (v. i.) To make a guess or random judgment; to conjecture; -- with at, about, etc. \ (n.) An opinion as to anything, formed without sufficient or decisive evidence or grounds; an attempt to hit upon the truth by a random judgment; a conjecture; a surmise.
ins habit (n.) The usual condition or state of a person or thing, either natural or acquired, regarded as something had, possessed, and firmly retained; as, a religious habit; his habit is morose; elms have a spreading habit; esp., physical temperament or constitution, a full habit of body. \ (n.) The general appearance and manner of life of a living organism. \ (n.) Fixed or established custom; ordinary course of conduct; practice; usage; hence, prominently, the involuntary tendency or aptitude to perform certain actions which is acquired by their frequent repetition, habit is second nature; also, peculiar ways of acting; characteristic forms of behavior. \ (n.) Outward appearance; attire; dress, a garment, a closely fitting garment or dress worn by ladies, a riding habit. \ (n.) To inhabit. \ (n.) To dress; to clothe; to array. \ (n.) To accustom; to habituate. [Obs.] Chapman.
ins hairbrush (n.) A brush for cleansing and smoothing the hair.
ins hall (n.) A building or room of considerable size and stateliness, used for public purposes; as, Westminster Hall, in London. \ (n.) The chief room in a castle or manor house, and in early times the only public room, serving as the place of gathering for the lord's family with the retainers and servants, also for cooking and eating. It was often contrasted with the bower, which was the private or sleeping apartment. \ (n.) A vestibule, entrance room, etc., in the more elaborated buildings of later times. \ (n.) Any corridor or passage in a building. \ (n.) A name given to many manor houses because the magistrate's court was held in the hall of his mansion; a chief mansion house. \ (n.) A college in an English university (at Oxford, an unendowed college). \ (n.) The apartment in which English university students dine in common; hence, the dinner itself, hall is at six o'clock. \ (n.) Cleared passageway in a crowd; -- formerly an exclamation.
ins ham (n.) Home. \ (n.) The region back of the knee joint; the popliteal space; the hock. \ (n.) The thigh of any animal; especially, the thigh of a hog cured by salting and smoking.
ins hammer (n.) An instrument for driving nails, beating metals, and the like, consisting of a head, usually of steel or iron, fixed crosswise to a handle. \ (n.) Something which in firm or action resembles the common hammer \ (n.) That part of a clock which strikes upon the bell to indicate the hour. \ (n.) The padded mallet of a piano, which strikes the wires, to produce the tones. \ (n.) The malleus. \ (n.) That part of a gunlock which strikes the percussion cap, or firing pin; the cock; formerly, however, a piece of steel covering the pan of a flintlock musket and struck by the flint of the cock to ignite the priming. \ (n.) Also, a person of thing that smites or shatters; as, St. Augustine was the hammer of heresies. \ (v. t.) To beat with a hammer; to beat with heavy blows, to hammer iron. \ (v. t.) To form or forge with a hammer; to shape by beating. \ (v. t.) To form in the mind; to shape by hard intellectual labor; -- usually with out. \ (v. i.) To be busy forming anything; to labor hard as if shaping something with a hammer. \ (v. i.) To strike repeated blows, literally or figuratively. \ (n.) A spherical weight attached to a flexible handle and hurled from a mark or ring. The weight of head and handle is usually not less than 16 pounds.
ins handkerchief (n.) A piece of cloth, usually square and often fine and elegant, carried for wiping the face or hands. \ (n.) A piece of cloth shaped like a handkerchief to be worn about the neck; a neckerchief; a neckcloth.
ins handle (v. t.) To touch; to feel with the hand; to use or hold with the hand. \ (v. t.) To manage in using, as a spade or a musket; to wield; often, to manage skillfully. \ (v. t.) To accustom to the hand; to work upon, or take care of, with the hands. \ (v. t.) To receive and transfer; to have pass through one's hands; hence, to buy and sell; as, a merchant handles a variety of goods, or a large stock. \ (v. t.) To deal with; to make a business of. \ (v. t.) To treat; to use, well or ill. \ (v. t.) To manage; to control; to practice skill upon. \ (v. t.) To use or manage in writing or speaking; to treat, as a theme, an argument, or an objection. \ (v. i.) To use the hands. \ (n.) That part of vessels, instruments, etc., which is held in the hand when used or moved, as the haft of a sword, the knob of a door, the bail of a kettle, etc. \ (n.) That of which use is made; the instrument for effecting a purpose; a tool.
ins handsome (superl.) Dexterous; skillful; handy; ready; convenient; -- applied to things as persons. \ (superl.) Agreeable to the eye or to correct taste; having a pleasing appearance or expression; attractive; having symmetry and dignity; comely; -- expressing more than pretty, and less than beautiful; as, a handsome man or woman; a handsome garment, house, tree, horse. \ (superl.) Suitable or fit in action; marked with propriety and ease; graceful; becoming; appropriate, a handsome style, etc. \ (superl.) Evincing a becoming generosity or nobleness of character; liberal; generous. \ (superl.) Ample; moderately large.
ins hang v. to place something so the highest part is supported and the lower part is not; to kill by hanging \ (v. i.) To suspend; to fasten to some elevated point without support from below; -- often used with up or out; as, to hang a coat on a hook; to hang up a sign; to hang out a banner. \ (v. i.) To fasten in a manner which will allow of free motion upon the point or points of suspension; -- said of a pendulum, a swing, a door, gate, etc. \ (v. i.) To fit properly, as at a proper angle (a part of an implement that is swung in using), as a scythe to its snath, or an ax to its helve. \ (v. i.) To put to death by suspending by the neck; -- a form of capital punishment, to hang a murderer. \ (v. i.) To cover, decorate, or furnish by hanging pictures trophies, drapery, and the like, or by covering with paper hangings; -- said of a wall, a room, etc. \ (v. i.) To paste, as paper hangings, on the walls of a room. \ (v. i.) To hold or bear in a suspended or inclined manner or position instead of erect; to droop, he hung his head in shame. \ (v. i.) To be suspended or fastened to some elevated point without support from below; to dangle; to float; to rest; to remain; to stay. \ (v. i.) To be fastened in such a manner as to allow of free motion on the point or points of suspension. \ (v. i.) To die or be put to death by suspension from the neck. \ (v. i.) To hold for support; to depend; to cling; -- usually with on or upon, this question hangs on a single point. \ (v. i.) To be, or be like, a suspended weight. \ (v. i.) To hover; to impend; to appear threateningly; -- usually with over, evils hang over the country. \ (v. i.) To lean or incline; to incline downward. \ (v. i.) To slope down, hanging grounds. \ (v. i.) To be undetermined or uncertain; to be in suspense; to linger; to be delayed. \ (n.) The manner in which one part or thing hangs upon, or is connected with, another, the hang of a scythe. \ (n.) Connection; arrangement; plan, the hang of a discourse. \ (n.) A sharp or steep declivity or slope. \ (v. i.) Of a ball: To rebound unexpectedly or unusually slowly, due to backward spin on the ball or imperfections of ground. \ (v. t.) To prevent from reaching a decision, esp. by refusing to join in a verdict that must be unanimous, one obstinate juror can hang a jury.
ins happily (adv.) By chance; peradventure; haply. \ (adv.) By good fortune; fortunately; luckily. \ (adv.) In a happy manner or state; in happy circumstances; as, he lived happily with his wife. \ (adv.) With address or dexterity; gracefully; felicitously; in a manner to success; with success.
ins harbor (n.) A station for rest and entertainment; a place of security and comfort; a refuge; a shelter. \ (n.) Specif.: A lodging place; an inn. \ (n.) The mansion of a heavenly body. \ (n.) A portion of a sea, a lake, or other large body of water, either landlocked or artificially protected so as to be a place of safety for vessels in stormy weather; a port or haven. \ (n.) A mixing box materials. \ (n.) To afford lodging to; to enter as guest; to receive; to give a refuge to; indulge or cherish (a thought or feeling, esp. an ill thought). \ (v. i.) To lodge, or abide for a time; to take shelter, as in a harbor.
ins hardly (adv.) In a hard or difficult manner; with difficulty. \ (adv.) Unwillingly; grudgingly. \ (adv.) Scarcely; barely; not guite; not wholly. \ (adv.) Severely; harshly; roughly. \ (adv.) Confidently; hardily. \ (adv.) Certainly; surely; indeed.
ins harm v. to injure; to damage; n. damage; hurt \ (n.) Injury; hurt; damage; detriment; misfortune. \ (n.) That which causes injury, or loss. \ (n.) To hurt; to injure; to wrong.
ins hate v. to have strong emotions against; to consider as an enemy; opposite love \ (n.) To have a great aversion to, with a strong desire that evil should befall the person toward whom the feeling is directed; to dislike intensely; to detest; as, to hate one's enemies; to hate hypocrisy. \ (n.) To be very unwilling; followed by an infinitive, or a substantive clause with that, to hate to get into debt; to hate that anything should be wasted. \ (n.) To love less, relatively. \ (v.) Strong aversion coupled with desire that evil should befall the person toward whom the feeling is directed; as exercised toward things, intense dislike; hatred; detestation; -- opposed to love.
ins headache (n.) Pain in the head; cephalalgia.
ins health n. the general condition of the body and mind; the condition of being free from sickness or disease \ (n.) The state of being hale, sound, or whole, in body, mind, or soul; especially, the state of being free from physical disease or pain. \ (n.) A wish of health and happiness, as in pledging a person in a toast.
ins heat v. to make hot or warm; n. great warmth; that which is produced by burning fuel; energy from the sun \ (n.) A force in nature which is recognized in various effects, but especially in the phenomena of fusion and evaporation, and which, as manifested in fire, the sun's rays, mechanical action, chemical combination, etc., becomes directly known to us through the sense of feeling. In its nature heat is a mode if motion, being in general a form of molecular disturbance or vibration. It was formerly supposed to be a subtile, imponderable fluid, to which was given the name caloric. \ (n.) The sensation caused by the force or influence of heat when excessive, or above that which is normal to the human body; the bodily feeling experienced on exposure to fire; the reverse of cold. \ (n.) High temperature, as distinguished from low temperature, or cold; as, the heat of summer and the cold of winter; heat of the skin or body in fever, etc. \ (n.) Indication of high temperature; appearance, condition, or color of a body, as indicating its temperature; redness; high color; flush; degree of temperature to which something is heated, as indicated by appearance, or otherwise. \ (n.) A single complete operation of heating, as at a forge or in a furnace, to make a horseshoe in a certain number of heats. \ (n.) A violent action unintermitted; a single effort; a single course in a race that consists of two or more courses, he won two heats out of three. \ (n.) Utmost violence; rage; vehemence, the heat of battle or party. \ (n.) Agitation of mind; inflammation or excitement; exasperation. \ (n.) Animation, as in discourse; ardor; fervency. \ (n.) Sexual excitement in animals. \ (n.) Fermentation. \ (v. t.) To make hot; to communicate heat to, or cause to grow warm, to heat an oven or furnace, an iron, or the like. \ (v. t.) To excite or make hot by action or emotion; to make feverish. \ (v. t.) To excite ardor in; to rouse to action; to excite to excess; to inflame, as the passions. \ (v. i.) To grow warm or hot by the action of fire or friction, or the communication of heat, the iron or the water heats slowly. \ (v. i.) To grow warm or hot by fermentation, or the development of heat by chemical action, green hay heats in a mow, and manure in the dunghill. \ (imp. & p. p.) Heated, the iron though heat red-hot.
ins heaven (n.) The expanse of space surrounding the earth; esp., that which seems to be over the earth like a great arch or dome; the firmament; the sky; the place where the sun, moon, and stars appear; -- often used in the plural in this sense. \ (n.) The dwelling place of the Deity; the abode of bliss; the place or state of the blessed after death. \ (n.) The sovereign of heaven; God; also, the assembly of the blessed, collectively; -- used variously in this sense, as in No. 2. \ (n.) Any place of supreme happiness or great comfort; perfect felicity; bliss; a sublime or exalted condition; as, a heaven of delight. \ (v. t.) To place in happiness or bliss, as if in heaven; to beatify.
ins height (n.) The condition of being high; elevated position. \ (n.) The distance to which anything rises above its foot, above that on which in stands, above the earth, or above the level of the sea; altitude; the measure upward from a surface, as the floor or the ground, of animal, especially of a man; stature. \ (n.) Degree of latitude either north or south. \ (n.) That which is elevated; an eminence; a hill or mountain; as, Alpine heights. \ (n.) Elevation in excellence of any kind, as in power, learning, arts; also, an advanced degree of social rank; preeminence or distinction in society; prominence. \ (n.) Progress toward eminence; grade; degree. \ (n.) Utmost degree in extent; extreme limit of energy or condition, the height of a fever, of passion, of madness, of folly; the height of a tempest.
ins helicopter n. a machine without wings that can fly up or down or remain in one place above the ground
ins hell (v. t.) The place of the dead, or of souls after death; the grave; -- called in Hebrew sheol, and by the Greeks hades. \ (v. t.) The place or state of punishment for the wicked after death; the abode of evil spirits. Hence, any mental torment; anguish. \ (v. t.) A place where outcast persons or things are gathered \ (v. t.) A dungeon or prison; also, in certain running games, a place to which those who are caught are carried for detention. \ (v. t.) A gambling house. \ (v. t.) A place into which a tailor throws his shreds, or a printer his broken type. \ (v. t.) To overwhelm.
ins helpful (a.) Furnishing help; giving aid; assistant; useful; salutary.
ins hero n. a person honored for being brave or wise \ (n.) An illustrious man, supposed to be exalted, after death, to a place among the gods; a demigod, as Hercules. \ (n.) A man of distinguished valor or enterprise in danger, or fortitude in suffering; a prominent or central personage in any remarkable action or event; hence, a great or illustrious person. \ (n.) The principal personage in a poem, story, and the like, or the person who has the principal share in the transactions related; as Achilles in the Iliad, Ulysses in the Odyssey, and Aeneas in the Aeneid.
ins herself (pron.) An emphasized form of the third person feminine pronoun; -- used as a subject with she; as, she herself will bear the blame; also used alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case, it is herself; she blames herself. \ (pron.) Her own proper, true, or real character; hence, her right, or sane, mind, the woman was deranged, but she is now herself again; she has come to herself.
ins hey (a.) High. \ (interj.) An exclamation of joy, surprise, or encouragement. \ (interj.) A cry to set dogs on.
ins hide v. to prevent from being seen or found; to make secret \ (v. t.) To conceal, or withdraw from sight; to put out of view; to secrete. \ (v. t.) To withhold from knowledge; to keep secret; to refrain from avowing or confessing. \ (v. t.) To remove from danger; to shelter. \ (v. i.) To lie concealed; to keep one's self out of view; to be withdrawn from sight or observation. \ (n.) An abode or dwelling. \ (n.) A measure of land, common in Domesday Book and old English charters, the quantity of which is not well ascertained, but has been differently estimated at 80, 100, and 120 acres. \ (n.) The skin of an animal, either raw or dressed; -- generally applied to the undressed skins of the larger domestic animals, as oxen, horses, etc. \ (n.) The human skin; -- so called in contempt. \ (v. t.) To flog; to whip.
ins highly (adv.) In a high manner, or to a high degree; very much; as, highly esteemed.
ins hiking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hike
ins himself (pron.) An emphasized form of the third person masculine pronoun; -- used as a subject usually with he; as, he himself will bear the blame; used alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case, it is himself who saved himself. \ (pron.) One's true or real character; one's natural temper and disposition; the state of being in one's right or sane mind (after unconsciousness, passion, delirium, or abasement), the man has come to himself. \ (pron. pl.) Alt. of Himselven
ins hire (pron.) See Here, pron. \ (n.) The price, reward, or compensation paid, or contracted to be paid, for the temporary use of a thing or a place, for personal service, or for labor; wages; rent; pay. \ (n.) A bailment by which the use of a thing, or the services and labor of a person, are contracted for at a certain price or reward. \ (n.) To procure (any chattel or estate) from another person, for temporary use, for a compensation or equivalent; to purchase the use or enjoyment of for a limited time; as, to hire a farm for a year; to hire money. \ (n.) To engage or purchase the service, labor, or interest of (any one) for a specific purpose, by payment of wages, to hire a servant, an agent, or an advocate. \ (n.) To grant the temporary use of, for compensation; to engage to give the service of, for a price; to let; to lease; -- now usually with out, and often reflexively, he has hired out his horse, or his time.
ins holy ad. greatly honored in religion \ (superl.) Set apart to the service or worship of God; hallowed; sacred; reserved from profane or common use; holy vessels; a holy priesthood. \ (superl.) Spiritually whole or sound; of unimpaired innocence and virtue; free from sinful affections; pure in heart; godly; pious; irreproachable; guiltless; acceptable to God.
ins hook (n.) A piece of metal, or other hard material, formed or bent into a curve or at an angle, for catching, holding, or sustaining anything; as, a hook for catching fish; a hook for fastening a gate; a boat hook, etc. \ (n.) That part of a hinge which is fixed to a post, and on which a door or gate hangs and turns. \ (n.) An implement for cutting grass or grain; a sickle; an instrument for cutting or lopping; a billhook. \ (n.) See Eccentric, and V-hook. \ (n.) A snare; a trap. \ (n.) A field sown two years in succession. \ (n.) The projecting points of the thigh bones of cattle; -- called also hook bones. \ (v. t.) To catch or fasten with a hook or hooks; to seize, capture, or hold, as with a hook, esp. with a disguised or baited hook; hence, to secure by allurement or artifice; to entrap; to catch, to hook a dress; to hook a trout. \ (v. t.) To seize or pierce with the points of the horns, as cattle in attacking enemies; to gore. \ (v. t.) To steal. \ (v. i.) To bend; to curve as a hook. \ (n.) A spit or narrow cape of sand or gravel turned landward at the outer end, Sandy Hook. \ (v. i.) To move or go with a sudden turn; \ (v. i.) to make off; to clear out; -- often with it.
ins host (n.) The consecrated wafer, believed to be the body of Christ, which in the Mass is offered as a sacrifice; also, the bread before consecration. \ (n.) An army; a number of men gathered for war. \ (n.) Any great number or multitude; a throng. \ (n.) One who receives or entertains another, whether gratuitously or for compensation; one from whom another receives food, lodging, or entertainment; a landlord. \ (v. t.) To give entertainment to. \ (v. i.) To lodge at an inn; to take up entertainment. \ (n.) Any animal or plant affording lodgment or subsistence to a parasitic or commensal organism. Thus a tree is a host of an air plant growing upon it.
ins however conj. yet; but \ (adv.) In whetever manner, way, or degree. \ (adv.) At all events; at least; in any case. \ (conj.) Nevertheless; notwithstanding; yet; still; though; as, I shall not oppose your design; I can not, however, approve of it.
ins human ad. of or about people \ (a.) Belonging to man or mankind; having the qualities or attributes of a man; of or pertaining to man or to the race of man; as, a human voice; human shape; human nature; human sacrifices. \ (n.) A human being.
ins hunt v. to search for animals to capture or kill them; to seek; to try to find \ (v. t.) To search for or follow after, as game or wild animals; to chase; to pursue for the purpose of catching or killing; to follow with dogs or guns for sport or exercise; as, to hunt a deer. \ (v. t.) To search diligently after; to pursue; to follow; -- often with out or up, to hunt up the facts; to hunt out evidence. \ (v. t.) To drive; -- with down, from, away, etc., to hunt down a criminal; he was hunted from the parish. \ (v. t.) To use or manage in the chase, as hounds. \ (v. t.) To use or traverse in pursuit of game, he hunts the woods, or the country. \ (v. i.) To follow the chase; to go out in pursuit of game; to course with hounds. \ (v. i.) To seek; to search; -- with for or after. \ (n.) The act or practice of chasing wild animals; chase; pursuit; search. \ (n.) The game secured in the hunt. \ (n.) A pack of hounds. \ (n.) An association of huntsmen. \ (n.) A district of country hunted over. \ (v. i.) To be in a state of instability of movement or forced oscillation, as a governor which has a large movement of the balls for small change of load, an arc-lamp clutch mechanism which moves rapidly up and down with variations of current, or the like; also, to seesaw, as a pair of alternators working in parallel. \ (v. i.) To shift up and down in order regularly. \ (v. t.) To move or shift the order of (a bell) in a regular course of changes.
ins illness (n.) The condition of being ill, evil, or bad; badness; unfavorableness. \ (n.) Disease; indisposition; malady; disorder of health; sickness; as, a short or a severe illness. \ (n.) Wrong moral conduct; wickedness.
ins image a reproduction of the appearance of a person or thing \ (n.) An imitation, representation, or similitude of any person, thing, or act, sculptured, drawn, painted, or otherwise made perceptible to the sight; a visible presentation; a copy; a likeness; an effigy; a picture; a semblance. \ (n.) Hence: The likeness of anything to which worship is paid; an idol. \ (n.) Show; appearance; cast. \ (n.) A representation of anything to the mind; a picture drawn by the fancy; a conception; an idea. \ (n.) A picture, example, or illustration, often taken from sensible objects, and used to illustrate a subject; usually, an extended metaphor. \ (n.) The figure or picture of any object formed at the focus of a lens or mirror, by rays of light from the several points of the object symmetrically refracted or reflected to corresponding points in such focus; this may be received on a screen, a photographic plate, or the retina of the eye, and viewed directly by the eye, or with an eyeglass, as in the telescope and microscope; the likeness of an object formed by reflection; as, to see one's image in a mirror. \ (v. t.) To represent or form an image of, the still lake imaged the shore; the mirror imaged her figure. \ (v. t.) To represent to the mental vision; to form a likeness of by the fancy or recollection; to imagine.
ins imagination (n.) The imagine-making power of the mind; the power to create or reproduce ideally an object of sense previously perceived; the power to call up mental imagines. \ (n.) The representative power; the power to reconstruct or recombine the materials furnished by direct apprehension; the complex faculty usually termed the plastic or creative power; the fancy. \ (n.) The power to recombine the materials furnished by experience or memory, for the accomplishment of an elevated purpose; the power of conceiving and expressing the ideal. \ (n.) A mental image formed by the action of the imagination as a faculty; a conception; a notion.
ins imagine v. to make a picture in the mind; to form an idea \ (v. t.) To form in the mind a notion or idea of; to form a mental image of; to conceive; to produce by the imagination. \ (v. t.) To contrive in purpose; to scheme; to devise; to compass; to purpose. See Compass, v. t., 5. \ (v. t.) To represent to one's self; to think; to believe. \ (v. i.) To form images or conceptions; to devise. \ (v. i.) To think; to suppose.
ins immediate ad. without delay; very near in time or place \ (a.) Not separated in respect to place by anything intervening; proximate; close; as, immediate contact. \ (a.) Not deferred by an interval of time; present; instant. \ (a.) Acting with nothing interposed or between, or without the intervention of another object as a cause, means, or agency; acting, perceived, or produced, directly, an immediate cause.
ins immediately (adv.) In an immediate manner; without intervention of any other person or thing; proximately; directly; -- opposed to mediately; as, immediately contiguous. \ (adv.) Without interval of time; without delay; promptly; instantly; at once. \ (adv.) As soon as. Cf. Directly, 8, Note.
ins importance (n.) The quality or state of being important; consequence; weight; moment; significance. \ (n.) Subject; matter. \ (n.) Import; meaning; significance. \ (n.) Importunity; solicitation.
ins impossible (a.) Not possible; incapable of being done, of existing, etc.; unattainable in the nature of things, or by means at command; insuperably difficult under the circumstances; absurd or impracticable; not feasible. \ (n.) An impossibility.
ins impression (n.) The act of impressing, or the state of being impressed; the communication of a stamp, mold, style, or character, by external force or by influence. \ (n.) That which is impressed; stamp; mark; indentation; sensible result of an influence exerted from without. \ (n.) That which impresses, or exercises an effect, action, or agency; appearance; phenomenon. \ (n.) Influence or effect on the senses or the intellect hence, interest, concern. \ (n.) An indistinct notion, remembrance, or belief. \ (n.) Impressiveness; emphasis of delivery. \ (n.) The pressure of the type on the paper, or the result of such pressure, as regards its appearance; as, a heavy impression; a clear, or a poor, impression; also, a single copy as the result of printing, or the whole edition printed at a given time. \ (n.) In painting, the first coat of color, as the priming in house painting and the like. \ (n.) A print on paper from a wood block, metal plate, or the like.
ins improve v. to make better; to become better \ (v. t.) To disprove or make void; to refute. \ (v. t.) To disapprove; to find fault with; to reprove; to censure; as, to improve negligence. \ (v. t.) To make better; to increase the value or good qualities of; to ameliorate by care or cultivation, to improve land. \ (v. t.) To use or employ to good purpose; to make productive; to turn to profitable account; to utilize, to improve one's time; to improve his means. \ (v. t.) To advance or increase by use; to augment or add to; -- said with reference to what is bad. \ (v. i.) To grow better; to advance or make progress in what is desirable; to make or show improvement, to improve in health. \ (v. i.) To advance or progress in bad qualities; to grow worse. \ (v. i.) To increase; to be enhanced; to rise in value, the price of cotton improves.
ins inch (n.) An island; -- often used in the names of small islands off the coast of Scotland, as in Inchcolm, Inchkeith, etc. \ (n.) A measure of length, the twelfth part of a foot, commonly subdivided into halves, quarters, eights, sixteenths, etc., as among mechanics. It was also formerly divided into twelve parts, called lines, and originally into three parts, called barleycorns, its length supposed to have been determined from three grains of barley placed end to end lengthwise. It is also sometimes called a prime ('), composed of twelve seconds (''), as in the duodecimal system of arithmetic. \ (n.) A small distance or degree, whether of time or space; hence, a critical moment. \ (v. t.) To drive by inches, or small degrees. \ (v. t.) To deal out by inches; to give sparingly. \ (v. i.) To advance or retire by inches or small degrees; to move slowly. \ (a.) Measurement an inch in any dimension, whether length, breadth, or thickness; -- used in composition; as, a two-inch cable; a four-inch plank.
ins include v. to have; to make a part of \ (v. t.) To confine within; to hold; to contain; to shut up; to inclose; as, the shell of a nut includes the kernel; a pearl is included in a shell. \ (v. t.) To comprehend or comprise, as a genus the species, the whole a part, an argument or reason the inference; to embrace, this volume of Shakespeare includes his sonnets; he was included in the invitation to the family; to and including page twenty-five. \ (v. t.) To conclude; to end; to terminate.
ins industry n. any business that produces goods or provides services; the work and related activity in factories and offices; all organizations involved in manufacturing \ (n.) Habitual diligence in any employment or pursuit, either bodily or mental; steady attention to business; assiduity; -- opposed to sloth and idleness; as, industry pays debts, while idleness or despair will increase them. \ (n.) Any department or branch of art, occupation, or business; especially, one which employs much labor and capital and is a distinct branch of trade, the sugar industry; the iron industry; the cotton industry. \ (n.) Human exertion of any kind employed for the creation of value, and regarded by some as a species of capital or wealth; labor.
ins inform v. to tell; to give knowledge to \ (a.) Without regular form; shapeless; ugly; deformed. \ (v. t.) To give form or share to; to give vital ororganizing power to; to give life to; to imbue and actuate with vitality; to animate; to mold; to figure; to fashion. \ (v. t.) To communicate knowledge to; to make known to; to acquaint; to advise; to instruct; to tell; to notify; to enlighten; -- usually followed by of. \ (v. t.) To communicate a knowledge of facts to,by way of accusation; to warn against anybody. \ (v. t.) To take form; to become visible or manifest; to appear. \ (v. t.) To give intelligence or information; to tell.
ins information n. knowledge; facts \ (v. t.) The act of informing, or communicating knowledge or intelligence. \ (v. t.) News, advice, or knowledge, communicated by others or obtained by personal study and investigation; intelligence; knowledge derived from reading, observation, or instruction. \ (v. t.) A proceeding in the nature of a prosecution for some offens against the government, instituted and prosecuted, really or nominally, by some authorized public officer on behalt of the government. It differs from an indictment in criminal cases chiefly in not being based on the finding of a grand juri. See Indictment.
ins ink (n.) The step, or socket, in which the lower end of a millstone spindle runs. \ (n.) A fluid, or a viscous material or preparation of various kinds (commonly black or colored), used in writing or printing. \ (n.) A pigment. See India ink, under India. \ (v. t.) To put ink upon; to supply with ink; to blacken, color, or daub with ink.
ins insect n. a very small creature, usually with many legs and sometimes with wings \ (n.) One of the Insecta; esp., one of the Hexapoda. See Insecta. \ (n.) Any air-breathing arthropod, as a spider or scorpion. \ (n.) Any small crustacean. In a wider sense, the word is often loosely applied to various small invertebrates. \ (n.) Fig.: Any small, trivial, or contemptible person or thing. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to an insect or insects. \ (a.) Like an insect; small; mean; ephemeral.
ins instead ad. in the place of; taking the place of \ (adv.) In the place or room; -- usually followed by of. \ (adv.) Equivalent; equal to; -- usually with of.
ins intelligent ad. quick to understand or learn \ (a.) Endowed with the faculty of understanding or reason; as, man is an intelligent being. \ (a.) Possessed of intelligence, education, or judgment; knowing; sensible; skilled; marked by intelligence, an intelligent young man; an intelligent architect; an intelligent answer. \ (a.) Gognizant; aware; communicate.
ins intend (v. t.) To stretch' to extend; to distend. \ (v. t.) To strain; to make tense. \ (v. t.) To intensify; to strengthen. \ (v. t.) To apply with energy. \ (v. t.) To bend or turn; to direct, as one's course or journey. \ (v. t.) To fix the mind on; to attend to; to take care of; to superintend; to regard. \ (v. t.) To fix the mind upon (something to be accomplished); to be intent upon; to mean; to design; to plan; to purpose; -- often followed by an infinitely with to, or a dependent clause with that; as, he intends to go; he intends that she shall remain. \ (v. t.) To design mechanically or artistically; to fashion; to mold. \ (v. t.) To pretend; to counterfeit; to simulate.
ins international ad. of or about more than one nation or many nations; of the whole world
ins introduce (v. t.) To lead or bring in; to conduct or usher in; as, to introduce a person into a drawing-room. \ (v. t.) To put (something into a place); to insert, to introduce the finger, or a probe. \ (v. t.) To lead to and make known by formal announcement or recommendation; hence, to cause to be acquainted, to introduce strangers; to introduce one person to another. \ (v. t.) To bring into notice, practice, cultivation, or use, to introduce a new fashion, method, or plant. \ (v. t.) To produce; to cause to exist; to induce. \ (v. t.) To open to notice; to begin; to present, he introduced the subject with a long preface.
ins invitation (n.) The act of inviting; solicitation; the requesting of a person's company; as, an invitation to a party, to a dinner, or to visit a friend. \ (n.) A document written or printed, or spoken words, /onveying the message by which one is invited. \ (n.) Allurement; enticement.
ins iron n. a strong, hard metal used to make machines and tools \ (n.) The most common and most useful metallic element, being of almost universal occurrence, usually in the form of an oxide (as hematite, magnetite, etc.), or a hydrous oxide (as limonite, turgite, etc.). It is reduced on an enormous scale in three principal forms; viz., cast iron, steel, and wrought iron. Iron usually appears dark brown, from oxidation or impurity, but when pure, or on a fresh surface, is a gray or white metal. It is easily oxidized (rusted) by moisture, and is attacked by many corrosive agents. Symbol Fe (Latin Ferrum). Atomic weight 55.9. Specific gravity, pure iron, 7.86, 7.1. In magnetic properties, it is superior to all other substances. \ (n.) An instrument or utensil made of iron; -- chiefly in composition; as, a flatiron, a smoothing iron, etc. \ (n.) Fetters; chains; handcuffs; manacles. \ (n.) Strength; power; firmness; inflexibility, to rule with a rod of iron. \ (n.) Of, or made of iron; consisting of iron, an iron bar, dust. \ (n.) Resembling iron in color, iron blackness. \ (n.) Like iron in hardness, strength, impenetrability, power of endurance, insensibility, etc.; \ (n.) Rude; hard; harsh; severe. \ (n.) Firm; robust; enduring, an iron constitution. \ (n.) Inflexible; unrelenting, an iron will. \ (n.) Not to be broken; holding or binding fast; tenacious. \ (v. t.) To smooth with an instrument of iron; especially, to smooth, as cloth, with a heated flatiron; -- sometimes used with out. \ (v. t.) To shackle with irons; to fetter or handcuff. \ (v. t.) To furnish or arm with iron, to iron a wagon. \ (n.) An iron-headed club with a deep face, chiefly used in making approaches, lifting a ball over hazards
ins itself (pron.) The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in itself; it stands by itself.
ins jacket (n.) A short upper garment, extending downward to the hips; a short coat without skirts. \ (n.) An outer covering for anything, esp. a covering of some nonconducting material such as wood or felt, used to prevent radiation of heat, as from a steam boiler, cylinder, pipe, etc. \ (n.) In ordnance, a strengthening band surrounding and reenforcing the tube in which the charge is fired. \ (n.) A garment resembling a waistcoat lined with cork, to serve as a life preserver; -- called also cork jacket. \ (v. t.) To put a jacket on; to furnish, as a boiler, with a jacket. \ (v. t.) To thrash; to beat.
ins jet (n.) Same as 2d Get. \ (n.) A variety of lignite, of a very compact texture and velvet black color, susceptible of a good polish, and often wrought into mourning jewelry, toys, buttons, etc. Formerly called also black amber. \ (n.) A shooting forth; a spouting; a spurt; a sudden rush or gush, as of water from a pipe, or of flame from an orifice; also, that which issues in a jet. \ (n.) Drift; scope; range, as of an argument. \ (n.) The sprue of a type, which is broken from it when the type is cold. \ (v. i.) To strut; to walk with a lofty or haughty gait; to be insolent; to obtrude. \ (v. i.) To jerk; to jolt; to be shaken. \ (v. i.) To shoot forward or out; to project; to jut out. \ (v. t.) To spout; to emit in a stream or jet.
ins journey (n.) The travel or work of a day. \ (n.) Travel or passage from one place to another; hence, figuratively, a passage through life. \ (v. i.) To travel from place to place; to go from home to a distance. \ (v. t.) To traverse; to travel over or through.
ins judge v. to form an opinion about; to decide a question, especially a legal one; n. a public official who decides problems of law in a court \ (v. i.) A public officer who is invested with authority to hear and determine litigated causes, and to administer justice between parties in courts held for that purpose. \ (v. i.) One who has skill, knowledge, or experience, sufficient to decide on the merits of a question, or on the quality or value of anything; one who discerns properties or relations with skill and readiness; a connoisseur; an expert; a critic. \ (v. i.) A person appointed to decide in a/trial of skill, speed, etc., between two or more parties; an umpire; as, a judge in a horse race. \ (v. i.) One of supreme magistrates, with both civil and military powers, who governed Israel for more than four hundred years. \ (v. i.) The title of the seventh book of the Old Testament; the Book of Judges. \ (a.) To hear and determine, as in causes on trial; to decide as a judge; to give judgment; to pass sentence. \ (a.) To assume the right to pass judgment on another; to sit in judgment or commendation; to criticise or pass adverse judgment upon others. See Judge, v. t., 3. \ (v. t.) To compare facts or ideas, and perceive their relations and attributes, and thus distinguish truth from falsehood; to determine; to discern; to distinguish; to form an opinion about. \ (v. t.) To hear and determine by authority, as a case before a court, or a controversy between two parties. \ (v. t.) To examine and pass sentence on; to try; to doom. \ (v. t.) To arrogate judicial authority over; to sit in judgment upon; to be censorious toward. \ (v. t.) To determine upon or deliberation; to esteem; to think; to reckon. \ (v. t.) To exercise the functions of a magistrate over; to govern.
ins jungle (n.) A dense growth of brushwood, grasses, reeds, vines, etc.; an almost impenetrable thicket of trees, canes, and reedy vegetation, as in India, Africa, Australia, and Brazil.
ins kilo (n.) An abbreviation of Kilogram.
ins kilogram (n.) Alt. of Kilogramme
ins kilometer (n.) Alt. of Kilometre
ins knock (v. i.) To drive or be driven against something; to strike against something; to clash; as, one heavy body knocks against another. \ (v. i.) To strike or beat with something hard or heavy; to rap, to knock with a club; to knock on the door. \ (v. t.) To strike with something hard or heavy; to move by striking; to drive (a thing) against something, to knock a ball with a bat; to knock the head against a post; to knock a lamp off the table. \ (v. t.) To strike for admittance; to rap upon, as a door. \ (n.) A blow; a stroke with something hard or heavy; a jar. \ (n.) A stroke, as on a door for admittance; a rap. \ (v. i.) To practice evil speaking or fault-finding; to criticize habitually or captiously. \ (v. t.) To impress strongly or forcibly; to astonish; to move to admiration or applause.
ins knowledge n. that which is known; learning or understanding \ (v. i.) The act or state of knowing; clear perception of fact, truth, or duty; certain apprehension; familiar cognizance; cognition. \ (v. i.) That which is or may be known; the object of an act of knowing; a cognition; -- chiefly used in the plural. \ (v. i.) That which is gained and preserved by knowing; instruction; acquaintance; enlightenment; learning; scholarship; erudition. \ (v. i.) That familiarity which is gained by actual experience; practical skill; as, a knowledge of life. \ (v. i.) Scope of information; cognizance; notice, it has not come to my knowledge. \ (v. i.) Sexual intercourse; -- usually preceded by carnal, carnal knowledge. \ (v. t.) To acknowledge.
ins labor n. work; workers as a group \ (n.) Physical toil or bodily exertion, especially when fatiguing, irksome, or unavoidable, in distinction from sportive exercise; hard, muscular effort directed to some useful end, as agriculture, manufactures, and like; servile toil; exertion; work. \ (n.) Intellectual exertion; mental effort; as, the labor of compiling a history. \ (n.) That which requires hard work for its accomplishment; that which demands effort. \ (n.) Travail; the pangs and efforts of childbirth. \ (n.) Any pang or distress. \ (n.) The pitching or tossing of a vessel which results in the straining of timbers and rigging. \ (n.) A measure of land in Mexico and Texas, equivalent to an area of 177/ acres. \ (n.) To exert muscular strength; to exert one's strength with painful effort, particularly in servile occupations; to work; to toil. \ (n.) To exert one's powers of mind in the prosecution of any design; to strive; to take pains. \ (n.) To be oppressed with difficulties or disease; to do one's work under conditions which make it especially hard, wearisome; to move slowly, as against opposition, or under a burden; to be burdened; -- often with under, and formerly with of. \ (n.) To be in travail; to suffer the pangs of childbirth. \ (n.) To pitch or roll heavily, as a ship in a turbulent sea. \ (v. t.) To work at; to till; to cultivate by toil. \ (v. t.) To form or fabricate with toil, or care. \ (v. t.) To prosecute, or perfect, with effort; to urge stre/uously, to labor a point or argument. \ (v. t.) To belabor; to beat. \ (n.) A store or set of stopes.
ins lack v. to be without; n. the condition of needing, wanting or not having \ (n.) Blame; cause of blame; fault; crime; offense. \ (n.) Deficiency; want; need; destitution; failure; as, a lack of sufficient food. \ (v. t.) To blame; to find fault with. \ (v. t.) To be without or destitute of; to want; to need. \ (v. i.) To be wanting; often, impersonally, with of, meaning, to be less than, short, not quite, etc. \ (v. i.) To be in want. \ (interj.) Exclamation of regret or surprise.
ins lamp (n.) A thin plate or lamina. \ (n.) A light-producing vessel, instrument or apparatus; especially, a vessel with a wick used for the combustion of oil or other inflammable liquid, for the purpose of producing artificial light. \ (n.) Figuratively, anything which enlightens intellectually or morally; anything regarded metaphorically a performing the uses of a lamp. \ (n.) A device or mechanism for producing light by electricity. See Incandescent lamp, under Incandescent.
ins law n. all or any rules made by a government \ (n.) In general, a rule of being or of conduct, established by an authority able to enforce its will; a controlling regulation; the mode or order according to which an agent or a power acts. \ (n.) In morals: The will of God as the rule for the disposition and conduct of all responsible beings toward him and toward each other; a rule of living, conformable to righteousness; the rule of action as obligatory on the conscience or moral nature. \ (n.) The Jewish or Mosaic code, and that part of Scripture where it is written, in distinction from the gospel; hence, also, the Old Testament. \ (n.) An organic rule, as a constitution or charter, establishing and defining the conditions of the existence of a state or other organized community. \ (n.) Any edict, decree, order, ordinance, statute, resolution, judicial, decision, usage, etc., or recognized, and enforced, by the controlling authority. \ (n.) In philosophy and physics: A rule of being, operation, or change, so certain and constant that it is conceived of as imposed by the will of God or by some controlling authority; as, the law of gravitation; the laws of motion; the law heredity; the laws of thought; the laws of cause and effect; law of self-preservation. \ (n.) In matematics: The rule according to which anything, as the change of value of a variable, or the value of the terms of a series, proceeds; mode or order of sequence. \ (n.) In arts, works, games, etc.: The rules of construction, or of procedure, conforming to the conditions of success; a principle, maxim; or usage, the laws of poetry, of architecture, of courtesy, or of whist. \ (n.) Collectively, the whole body of rules relating to one subject, or emanating from one source; -- including usually the writings pertaining to them, and judicial proceedings under them, divine law; English law; Roman law; the law of real property; insurance law. \ (n.) Legal science; jurisprudence; the principles of equity; applied justice. \ (n.) Trial by the laws of the land; judicial remedy; litigation, to go law. \ (n.) An oath, as in the presence of a court. \ (v. t.) Same as Lawe, v. t. \ (interj.) An exclamation of mild surprise.
ins lawyer (n.) One versed in the laws, or a practitioner of law; one whose profession is to conduct lawsuits for clients, or to advise as to prosecution or defence of lawsuits, or as to legal rights and obligations in other matters. It is a general term, comprehending attorneys, counselors, solicitors, barristers, sergeants, and advocates. \ (n.) The black-necked stilt. See Stilt. \ (n.) The bowfin (Amia calva). \ (n.) The burbot (Lota maculosa).
ins lay (imp.) of Lie, to recline. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the laity, as distinct from the clergy; as, a lay person; a lay preacher; a lay brother. \ (a.) Not educated or cultivated; ignorant. \ (a.) Not belonging to, or emanating from, a particular profession; unprofessional, a lay opinion regarding the nature of a disease. \ (n.) The laity; the common people. \ (n.) A meadow. See Lea. \ (n.) Faith; creed; religious profession. \ (n.) A law. \ (n.) An obligation; a vow. \ (a.) A song; a simple lyrical poem; a ballad. \ (a.) A melody; any musical utterance. \ (v. t.) To cause to lie down, to be prostrate, or to lie against something; to put or set down; to deposit, to lay a book on the table; to lay a body in the grave; a shower lays the dust. \ (v. t.) To place in position; to establish firmly; to arrange with regularity; to dispose in ranks or tiers, to lay a corner stone; to lay bricks in a wall; to lay the covers on a table. \ (v. t.) To prepare; to make ready; to contrive; to provide, to lay a snare, an ambush, or a plan. \ (v. t.) To spread on a surface, to lay plaster or paint. \ (v. t.) To cause to be still; to calm; to allay; to suppress; to exorcise, as an evil spirit. \ (v. t.) To cause to lie dead or dying. \ (v. t.) To deposit, as a wager; to stake; to risk. \ (v. t.) To bring forth and deposit, to lay eggs. \ (v. t.) To apply; to put. \ (v. t.) To impose, as a burden, suffering, or punishment; to assess, as a tax, to lay a tax on land. \ (v. t.) To impute; to charge; to allege. \ (v. t.) To impose, as a command or a duty, to lay commands on one. \ (v. t.) To present or offer, to lay an indictment in a particular county; to lay a scheme before one. \ (v. t.) To state; to allege, to lay the venue. \ (v. t.) To point; to aim, to lay a gun. \ (v. t.) To put the strands of (a rope, a cable, etc.) in their proper places and twist or unite them, to lay a cable or rope. \ (v. t.) To place and arrange (pages) for a form upon the imposing stone. \ (v. t.) To place (new type) properly in the cases. \ (v. i.) To produce and deposit eggs. \ (v. i.) To take a position; to come or go, to lay forward; to lay aloft. \ (v. i.) To lay a wager; to bet. \ (n.) That which lies or is laid or is conceived of as having been laid or placed in its position; a row; a stratum; a layer, a lay of stone or wood. \ (v. t.) A wager. \ (v. t.) A job, price, or profit. \ (v. t.) A share of the proceeds or profits of an enterprise, when a man ships for a whaling voyage, he agrees for a certain lay. \ (v. t.) A measure of yarn; a lea. See 1st Lea (a). \ (v. t.) The lathe of a loom. See Lathe, 3. \ (v. t.) A plan; a scheme. \ (imp.) of Lie
ins lazy (superl.) Disinclined to action or exertion; averse to labor; idle; shirking work. \ (superl.) Inactive; slothful; slow; sluggish; as, a lazy stream. \ (superl.) Wicked; vicious.
ins lead v. to show the way; to command; to control; to go first \ (n.) One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleable and ductile, though with little tenacity, and is used for tubes, sheets, bullets, etc. Its specific gravity is 11.37. It is easily fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of solder and type metal. Atomic weight, 206.4. Symbol Pb (L. Plumbum). It is chiefly obtained from the mineral galena, lead sulphide. \ (n.) An article made of lead or an alloy of lead \ (n.) A plummet or mass of lead, used in sounding at sea. \ (n.) A thin strip of type metal, used to separate lines of type in printing. \ (n.) Sheets or plates of lead used as a covering for roofs; hence, pl., a roof covered with lead sheets or terne plates. \ (n.) A small cylinder of black lead or plumbago, used in pencils. \ (v. t.) To cover, fill, or affect with lead; as, continuous firing leads the grooves of a rifle. \ (v. t.) To place leads between the lines of, to lead a page; leaded matter. \ (v. t.) To guide or conduct with the hand, or by means of some physical contact connection, a father leads a child; a jockey leads a horse with a halter; a dog leads a blind man. \ (v. t.) To guide or conduct in a certain course, or to a certain place or end, by making the way known; to show the way, esp. by going with or going in advance of. Hence, figuratively: To direct; to counsel; to instruct, to lead a traveler; to lead a pupil. \ (v. t.) To conduct or direct with authority; to have direction or charge of, to lead an army, an exploring party, or a search; to lead a political party. \ (v. t.) To go or to be in advance of; to precede, to be foremost or chief among, the big sloop led the fleet of yachts; the Guards led the attack; Demosthenes leads the orators of all ages. \ (v. t.) To draw or direct by influence, whether good or bad; to prevail on; to induce; to entice; to allure, to lead one to espouse a righteous cause. \ (v. t.) To guide or conduct one's self in, through, or along (a certain course), to proceed in the way of; to follow the path or course of; to pass; to spend. Also, to cause (one) to proceed or follow in (a certain course). \ (v. t.) To begin a game, round, or trick, with, to lead trumps; the double five was led. \ (v. i.) To guide or conduct, as by accompanying, going before, showing, influencing, directing with authority, etc.; to have precedence or preeminence; to be first or chief; -- used in most of the senses of lead, v. t. \ (v. t.) To tend or reach in a certain direction, or to a certain place, the path leads to the mill; gambling leads to other vices. \ (n.) The act of leading or conducting; guidance; direction, to take the lead; to be under the lead of another. \ (n.) precedence; advance position; also, the measure of precedence, the white horse had the lead; a lead of a boat's length, or of half a second. \ (n.) An open way in an ice field. \ (n.) A lode.
ins leader (n.) One who, or that which, leads or conducts; a guide; a conductor. \ (n.) One who goes first. \ (n.) One having authority to direct; a chief; a commander. \ (n.) A performer who leads a band or choir in music; also, in an orchestra, the principal violinist; the one who plays at the head of the first violins. \ (n.) A block of hard wood pierced with suitable holes for leading ropes in their proper places. \ (n.) The principal wheel in any kind of machinery. \ (n.) A horse placed in advance of others; one of the forward pair of horses. \ (n.) A pipe for conducting rain water from a roof to a cistern or to the ground; a conductor. \ (n.) A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc. , a line of gut, to which the snell of a fly hook is attached. \ (n.) A branch or small vein, not important in itself, but indicating the proximity of a better one. \ (n.) The first, or the principal, editorial article in a newspaper; a leading or main editorial article. \ (n.) A type having a dot or short row of dots upon its face. \ (n.) a row of dots, periods, or hyphens, used in tables of contents, etc., to lead the eye across a space to the right word or number.
ins least (a.) Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; most unimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space. \ (adv.) In the smallest or lowest degree; in a degree below all others, to reward those who least deserve it. \ (conj.) See Lest, conj.
ins leather (n.) The skin of an animal, or some part of such skin, tanned, tawed, or otherwise dressed for use; also, dressed hides, collectively. \ (n.) The skin. \ (v. t.) To beat, as with a thong of leather.
ins lemon (n.) An oval or roundish fruit resembling the orange, and containing a pulp usually intensely acid. It is produced by a tropical tree of the genus Citrus, the common fruit known in commerce being that of the species C. Limonum or C. Medica (var. Limonum). There are many varieties of the fruit, some of which are sweet. \ (n.) The tree which bears lemons; the lemon tree.
ins lend v. to permit someone to use a thing temporarily; to make a loan of money \ (v. t.) To allow the custody and use of, on condition of the return of the same; to grant the temporary use of; as, to lend a book; -- opposed to borrow. \ (v. t.) To allow the possession and use of, on condition of the return of an equivalent in kind, to lend money or some article of food. \ (v. t.) To afford; to grant or furnish in general, to lend assistance; to lend one's name or influence. \ (v. t.) To let for hire or compensation, to lend a horse or gig.
ins length (a.) The longest, or longer, dimension of any object, in distinction from breadth or width; extent of anything from end to end; the longest line which can be drawn through a body, parallel to its sides; as, the length of a church, or of a ship; the length of a rope or line. \ (a.) A portion of space or of time considered as measured by its length; -- often in the plural. \ (a.) The quality or state of being long, in space or time; extent; duration, some sea birds are remarkable for the length of their wings; he was tired by the length of the sermon, and the length of his walk. \ (a.) A single piece or subdivision of a series, or of a number of long pieces which may be connected together, a length of pipe; a length of fence. \ (a.) Detail or amplification; unfolding; continuance as, to pursue a subject to a great length. \ (a.) Distance. \ (v. t.) To lengthen.
ins less ad. smaller in amount; not as much \ (conj.) Unless. \ (a.) Smaller; not so large or great; not so much; shorter; inferior; as, a less quantity or number; a horse of less size or value; in less time than before. \ (adv.) Not so much; in a smaller or lower degree, less bright or loud; less beautiful. \ (n.) A smaller portion or quantity. \ (n.) The inferior, younger, or smaller. \ (v. t.) To make less; to lessen.
ins lie v. to have one's body on the ground or other surface; to say something that one knows is not true \ (n.) See Lye. \ (n.) A falsehood uttered or acted for the purpose of deception; an intentional violation of truth; an untruth spoken with the intention to deceive. \ (n.) A fiction; a fable; an untruth. \ (n.) Anything which misleads or disappoints. \ (v. i.) To utter falsehood with an intention to deceive; to say or do that which is intended to deceive another, when he a right to know the truth, or when morality requires a just representation. \ (adj.) To rest extended on the ground, a bed, or any support; to be, or to put one's self, in an horizontal position, or nearly so; to be prostate; to be stretched out; -- often with down, when predicated of living creatures; as, the book lies on the table; the snow lies on the roof; he lies in his coffin. \ (adj.) To be situated; to occupy a certain place, Ireland lies west of England; the meadows lie along the river; the ship lay in port. \ (adj.) To abide; to remain for a longer or shorter time; to be in a certain state or condition, to lie waste; to lie fallow; to lie open; to lie hid; to lie grieving; to lie under one's displeasure; to lie at the mercy of the waves; the paper does not lie smooth on the wall. \ (adj.) To be or exist; to belong or pertain; to have an abiding place; to consist; -- with in. \ (adj.) To lodge; to sleep. \ (adj.) To be still or quiet, like one lying down to rest. \ (adj.) To be sustainable; to be capable of being maintained. \ (n.) The position or way in which anything lies; the lay, as of land or country.
ins lift v. to take or bring up to a higher place or level \ (n.) The sky; the atmosphere; the firmament. \ (v. t.) To move in a direction opposite to that of gravitation; to raise; to elevate; to bring up from a lower place to a higher; to upheave; sometimes implying a continued support or holding in the higher place; -- said of material things; as, to lift the foot or the hand; to lift a chair or a burden. \ (v. t.) To raise, elevate, exalt, improve, in rank, condition, estimation, character, etc.; -- often with up. \ (v. t.) To bear; to support. \ (v. t.) To collect, as moneys due; to raise. \ (v. t.) To steal; to carry off by theft (esp. cattle), to lift a drove of cattle. \ (v. i.) To try to raise something; to exert the strength for raising or bearing. \ (v. i.) To rise; to become or appear raised or elevated, the fog lifts; the land lifts to a ship approaching it. \ (v. t.) To live by theft. \ (n.) Act of lifting; also, that which is lifted. \ (n.) The space or distance through which anything is lifted, a long lift. \ (n.) Help; assistance, as by lifting, to give one a lift in a wagon. \ (n.) That by means of which a person or thing lifts or is lifted \ (n.) A hoisting machine; an elevator; a dumb waiter. \ (n.) A handle. \ (n.) An exercising machine. \ (n.) A rise; a degree of elevation, the lift of a lock in canals. \ (n.) A lift gate. See Lift gate, below. \ (n.) A rope leading from the masthead to the extremity of a yard below; -- used for raising or supporting the end of the yard. \ (n.) One of the steps of a cone pulley. \ (n.) A layer of leather in the heel. \ (n.) That portion of the vibration of a balance during which the impulse is given.
ins likely (a.) Worthy of belief; probable; credible; as, a likely story. \ (a.) Having probability; having or giving reason to expect; -- followed by the infinitive, it is likely to rain. \ (a.) Similar; like; alike. \ (a.) Such as suits; good-looking; pleasing; agreeable; handsome. \ (a.) Having such qualities as make success probable; well adapted to the place; promising, a likely young man; a likely servant. \ (adv.) In all probability; probably.
ins limit v. to restrict to a number or amount; n. the greatest amount or number permitted \ (v. t.) That which terminates, circumscribes, restrains, or confines; the bound, border, or edge; the utmost extent; as, the limit of a walk, of a town, of a country; the limits of human knowledge or endeavor. \ (v. t.) The space or thing defined by limits. \ (v. t.) That which terminates a period of time; hence, the period itself; the full time or extent. \ (v. t.) A restriction; a check; a curb; a hindrance. \ (v. t.) A determining feature; a distinguishing characteristic; a differentia. \ (v. t.) A determinate quantity, to which a variable one continually approaches, and may differ from it by less than any given difference, but to which, under the law of variation, the variable can never become exactly equivalent. \ (v. t.) To apply a limit to, or set a limit for; to terminate, circumscribe, or restrict, by a limit or limits, to limit the acreage of a crop; to limit the issue of paper money; to limit one's ambitions or aspirations; to limit the meaning of a word. \ (v. i.) To beg, or to exercise functions, within a certain limited region, a limiting friar.
ins load v. to put objects on or into a vehicle or container; n. that which is carried \ (v.) A burden; that which is laid on or put in anything for conveyance; that which is borne or sustained; a weight; as, a heavy load. \ (v.) The quantity which can be carried or drawn in some specified way; the contents of a cart, barrow, or vessel; that which will constitute a cargo; lading. \ (v.) That which burdens, oppresses, or grieves the mind or spirits, a load of care. \ (v.) A particular measure for certain articles, being as much as may be carried at one time by the conveyance commonly used for the article measured, a load of wood; a load of hay; specifically, five quarters. \ (v.) The charge of a firearm, a load of powder. \ (v.) Weight or violence of blows. \ (v.) The work done by a steam engine or other prime mover when working. \ (v. t.) To lay a load or burden on or in, as on a horse or in a cart; to charge with a load, as a gun; to furnish with a lading or cargo, as a ship; hence, to add weight to, so as to oppress or embarrass; to heap upon. \ (v. t.) To adulterate or drug, to load wine. \ (v. t.) To magnetize.
ins local ad. about or having to do with one place \ (a.) Of or pertaining to a particular place, or to a definite region or portion of space; restricted to one place or region; as, a local custom. \ (n.) A train which receives and deposits passengers or freight along the line of the road; a train for the accommodation of a certain district. \ (n.) On newspaper cant, an item of news relating to the place where the paper is published.
ins lock (n.) A tuft of hair; a flock or small quantity of wool, hay, or other like substance; a tress or ringlet of hair. \ (n.) Anything that fastens; specifically, a fastening, as for a door, a lid, a trunk, a drawer, and the like, in which a bolt is moved by a key so as to hold or to release the thing fastened. \ (n.) A fastening together or interlacing; a closing of one thing upon another; a state of being fixed or immovable. \ (n.) A place from which egress is prevented, as by a lock. \ (n.) The barrier or works which confine the water of a stream or canal. \ (n.) An inclosure in a canal with gates at each end, used in raising or lowering boats as they pass from one level to another; -- called also lift lock. \ (n.) That part or apparatus of a firearm by which the charge is exploded; as, a matchlock, flintlock, percussion lock, etc. \ (n.) A device for keeping a wheel from turning. \ (n.) A grapple in wrestling. \ (v. t.) To fasten with a lock, or as with a lock; to make fast; to prevent free movement of, to lock a door, a carriage wheel, a river, etc. \ (v. t.) To prevent ingress or access to, or exit from, by fastening the lock or locks of; -- often with up, to lock or lock up, a house, jail, room, trunk. etc. \ (v. t.) To fasten in or out, or to make secure by means of, or as with, locks; to confine, or to shut in or out -- often with up, to lock one's self in a room; to lock up the prisoners; to lock up one's silver; to lock intruders out of the house; to lock money into a vault; to lock a child in one's arms; to lock a secret in one's breast. \ (v. t.) To link together; to clasp closely, to lock arms. \ (v. t.) To furnish with locks; also, to raise or lower (a boat) in a lock. \ (v. t.) To seize, as the sword arm of an antagonist, by turning the left arm around it, to disarm him. \ (v. i.) To become fast, as by means of a lock or by interlacing, the door locks close.
ins locker (n.) One who, or that which, locks. \ (n.) A drawer, cupboard, compartment, or chest, esp. one in a ship, that may be closed with a lock.
ins lonely ad. feeling alone and wanting friends; visited by few or no people ("a lonely man") \ (superl.) Sequestered from company or neighbors; solitary; retired; as, a lonely situation; a lonely cell. \ (superl.) Alone, or in want of company; forsaken. \ (superl.) Not frequented by human beings, a lonely wood. \ (superl.) Having a feeling of depression or sadness resulting from the consciousness of being alone; lonesome.
ins lot (n.) That which happens without human design or forethought; chance; accident; hazard; fortune; fate. \ (n.) Anything (as a die, pebble, ball, or slip of paper) used in determining a question by chance, or without man's choice or will; as, to cast or draw lots. \ (n.) The part, or fate, which falls to one, as it were, by chance, or without his planning. \ (n.) A separate portion; a number of things taken collectively, a lot of stationery; -- colloquially, sometimes of people, a sorry lot; a bad lot. \ (n.) A distinct portion or plot of land, usually smaller than a field, a building lot in a city. \ (n.) A large quantity or number; a great deal, to spend a lot of money; lots of people think so. \ (n.) A prize in a lottery. \ (v. t.) To allot; to sort; to portion.
ins loud ad. having a strong sound; full of sound or noise \ (superl.) Having, making, or being a strong or great sound; noisy; striking the ear with great force; as, a loud cry; loud thunder. \ (superl.) Clamorous; boisterous. \ (superl.) Emphatic; impressive; urgent, a loud call for united effort. \ (superl.) Ostentatious; likely to attract attention; gaudy, a loud style of dress; loud colors. \ (adv.) With loudness; loudly.
ins lovely (superl.) Having such an appearance as excites, or is fitted to excite, love; beautiful; charming; very pleasing in form, looks, tone, or manner. \ (superl.) Lovable; amiable; having qualities of any kind which excite, or are fitted to excite, love or friendship. \ (superl.) Loving; tender. \ (superl.) Very pleasing; -- applied loosely to almost anything which is not grand or merely pretty; as, a lovely view; a lovely valley; a lovely melody. \ (adv.) In a manner to please, or to excite love.
ins luck n. something that happens by chance \ (n.) That which happens to a person; an event, good or ill, affecting one's interests or happiness, and which is deemed casual; a course or series of such events regarded as occurring by chance; chance; hap; fate; fortune; often, one's habitual or characteristic fortune; as, good, bad, ill, or hard luck. Luck is often used for good luck, luck is better than skill.
ins mad (n.) A slattern. \ (n.) The name of a female fairy, esp. the queen of the fairies; and hence, sometimes, any fairy. \ p. p. of Made. \ (superl.) Disordered in intellect; crazy; insane. \ (superl.) Excited beyond self-control or the restraint of reason; inflamed by violent or uncontrollable desire, passion, or appetite; as, to be mad with terror, lust, or hatred; mad against political reform. \ (superl.) Proceeding from, or indicating, madness; expressing distraction; prompted by infatuation, fury, or extreme rashness. \ (superl.) Extravagant; immoderate. \ (superl.) Furious with rage, terror, or disease; -- said of the lower animals, a mad bull; esp., having hydrophobia; rabid, a mad dog. \ (superl.) Angry; out of patience; vexed, to get mad at a person. \ (superl.) Having impaired polarity; -- applied to a compass needle. \ (v. t.) To make mad or furious; to madden. \ (v. i.) To be mad; to go mad; to rave. See Madding. \ (n.) An earthworm.
ins magic (a.) A comprehensive name for all of the pretended arts which claim to produce effects by the assistance of supernatural beings, or departed spirits, or by a mastery of secret forces in nature attained by a study of occult science, including enchantment, conjuration, witchcraft, sorcery, necromancy, incantation, etc. \ (a.) Alt. of Magical
ins main ad. the most important or largest \ (n.) A hand or match at dice. \ (n.) A stake played for at dice. \ (n.) The largest throw in a match at dice; a throw at dice within given limits, as in the game of hazard. \ (n.) A match at cockfighting. \ (n.) A main-hamper. \ (v.) Strength; force; might; violent effort. \ (v.) The chief or principal part; the main or most important thing. \ (v.) The great sea, as distinguished from an arm, bay, etc. ; the high sea; the ocean. \ (v.) The continent, as distinguished from an island; the mainland. \ (v.) principal duct or pipe, as distinguished from lesser ones; esp. (Engin.), a principal pipe leading to or from a reservoir; as, a fire main. \ (a.) Very or extremely strong. \ (a.) Vast; huge. \ (a.) Unqualified; absolute; entire; sheer. \ (a.) Principal; chief; first in size, rank, importance, etc. \ (a.) Important; necessary. \ (a.) Very; extremely, main heavy.
ins maker (n.) One who makes, forms, or molds; a manufacturer; specifically, the Creator. \ (n.) The person who makes a promissory note. \ (n.) One who writes verses; a poet.
ins male n. a man or boy; the sex that is the father of children; ad. of or about men \ (a.) Evil; wicked; bad. \ (n.) Same as Mail, a bag. \ (v. t.) Of or pertaining to the sex that begets or procreates young, or (in a wider sense) to the sex that produces spermatozoa, by which the ova are fertilized; not female; as, male organs. \ (v. t.) Capable of producing fertilization, but not of bearing fruit; -- said of stamens and antheridia, and of the plants, or parts of plants, which bear them. \ (v. t.) Suitable to the male sex; characteristic or suggestive of a male; masculine, male courage. \ (v. t.) Consisting of males, a male choir. \ (v. t.) Adapted for entering another corresponding piece (the female piece) which is hollow and which it fits, a male gauge, for gauging the size or shape of a hole; a male screw, etc. \ (n.) An animal of the male sex. \ (n.) A plant bearing only staminate flowers.
ins mama (n.) See Mamma.
ins manage (n.) The handling or government of anything, but esp. of a horse; management; administration. See Manege. \ (n.) To have under control and direction; to conduct; to guide; to administer; to treat; to handle. \ (n.) Hence: Esp., to guide by careful or delicate treatment; to wield with address; to make subservient by artful conduct; to bring around cunningly to one's plans. \ (n.) To train in the manege, as a horse; to exercise in graceful or artful action. \ (n.) To treat with care; to husband. \ (n.) To bring about; to contrive. \ (v. i.) To direct affairs; to carry on business or affairs; to administer.
ins manager (n.) One who manages; a conductor or director; as, the manager of a theater. \ (n.) A person who conducts business or household affairs with economy and frugality; a good economist. \ (n.) A contriver; an intriguer.
ins mankind (n.) The human race; man, taken collectively. \ (n.) Men, as distinguished from women; the male portion of human race. \ (n.) Human feelings; humanity. \ (a.) Manlike; not womanly; masculine; bold; cruel.
ins manner (n.) Mode of action; way of performing or effecting anything; method; style; form; fashion. \ (n.) Characteristic mode of acting, conducting, carrying one's self, or the like; bearing; habitual style. \ (n.) Customary method of acting; habit. \ (n.) Carriage; behavior; deportment; also, becoming behavior; well-bred carriage and address. \ (n.) The style of writing or thought of an author; characteristic peculiarity of an artist. \ (n.) Certain degree or measure; as, it is in a manner done already. \ (n.) Sort; kind; -- in this application sometimes having the sense of a plural, sorts or kinds.
ins march v. to walk in a group like soldiers; to walk together in a large group to protest about something
ins mark v. to make a sign or cut on something \ (n.) A license of reprisals. See Marque. \ (n.) An old weight and coin. See Marc. \ (n.) The unit of monetary account of the German Empire, equal to 23.8 cents of United States money; the equivalent of one hundred pfennigs. Also, a silver coin of this value. \ (n.) A visible sign or impression made or left upon anything; esp., a line, point, stamp, figure, or the like, drawn or impressed, so as to attract the attention and convey some information or intimation; a token; a trace. \ (n.) A character or device put on an article of merchandise by the maker to show by whom it was made; a trade-mark. \ (n.) A character (usually a cross) made as a substitute for a signature by one who can not write. \ (n.) A fixed object serving for guidance, as of a ship, a traveler, a surveyor, etc.; as, a seamark, a landmark. \ (n.) A trace, dot, line, imprint, or discoloration, although not regarded as a token or sign; a scratch, scar, stain, this pencil makes a fine mark. \ (n.) An evidence of presence, agency, or influence; a significative token; a symptom; a trace; specifically, a permanent impression of one's activity or character. \ (n.) That toward which a missile is directed; a thing aimed at; what one seeks to hit or reach. \ (n.) Attention, regard, or respect. \ (n.) Limit or standard of action or fact, to be within the mark; to come up to the mark. \ (n.) Badge or sign of honor, rank, or official station. \ (n.) Preeminence; high position, particians of mark; a fellow of no mark. \ (n.) A characteristic or essential attribute; a differential. \ (n.) A number or other character used in registring, examination marks; a mark for tardiness. \ (n.) Image; likeness; hence, those formed in one's image; children; descendants. \ (n.) One of the bits of leather or colored bunting which are placed upon a sounding line at intervals of from two to five fathoms. The unmarked fathoms are called "deeps." \ (v. t.) To put a mark upon; to affix a significant mark to; to make recognizable by a mark, to mark a box or bale of merchandise; to mark clothing. \ (v. t.) To be a mark upon; to designate; to indicate; -- used literally and figuratively, this monument marks the spot where Wolfe died; his courage and energy marked him for a leader. \ (v. t.) To leave a trace, scratch, or other mark, upon, or any evidence of action, a pencil marks paper; his hobnails marked the floor. \ (v. t.) To keep account of; to enumerate and register, to mark the points in a game of billiards or cards. \ (v. t.) To notice or observe; to give attention to; to take note of; to remark; to heed; to regard. \ (v. i.) To take particular notice; to observe critically; to note; to remark.
ins married (imp. & p. p.) of Marry
ins mass n. an amount of matter having no special form and usually of a large size
ins match (n.) Anything used for catching and retaining or communicating fire, made of some substance which takes fire readily, or remains burning some time; esp., a small strip or splint of wood dipped at one end in a substance which can be easily ignited by friction, as a preparation of phosphorus or chlorate of potassium. \ (v.) A person or thing equal or similar to another; one able to mate or cope with another; an equal; a mate. \ (v.) A bringing together of two parties suited to one another, as for a union, a trial of skill or force, a contest, or the like \ (v.) A contest to try strength or skill, or to determine superiority; an emulous struggle. \ (v.) A matrimonial union; a marriage. \ (v.) An agreement, compact, etc. \ (v.) A candidate for matrimony; one to be gained in marriage. \ (v.) Equality of conditions in contest or competition. \ (v.) Suitable combination or bringing together; that which corresponds or harmonizes with something else; as, the carpet and curtains are a match. \ (v.) A perforated board, block of plaster, hardened sand, etc., in which a pattern is partly imbedded when a mold is made, for giving shape to the surfaces of separation between the parts of the mold. \ (v. t.) To be a mate or match for; to be able to complete with; to rival successfully; to equal. \ (v. t.) To furnish with its match; to bring a match, or equal, against; to show an equal competitor to; to set something in competition with, or in opposition to, as equal. \ (v. t.) To oppose as equal; to contend successfully against. \ (v. t.) To make or procure the equal of, or that which is exactly similar to, or corresponds with, to match a vase or a horse; to match cloth. \ (v. t.) To make equal, proportionate, or suitable; to adapt, fit, or suit (one thing to another). \ (v. t.) To marry; to give in marriage. \ (v. t.) To fit together, or make suitable for fitting together; specifically, to furnish with a tongue and a groove, at the edges, to match boards. \ (v. i.) To be united in marriage; to mate. \ (v. i.) To be of equal, or similar, size, figure, color, or quality; to tally; to suit; to correspond, these vases match. \ Alt. of race
ins mate v. to bring together a male and a female to create another creature \ (n.) The Paraguay tea, being the dried leaf of the Brazilian holly (Ilex Paraguensis). The infusion has a pleasant odor, with an agreeable bitter taste, and is much used for tea in South America. \ (n.) Same as Checkmate. \ (a.) See 2d Mat. \ (v. t.) To confuse; to confound. \ (v. t.) To checkmate. \ (n.) One who customarily associates with another; a companion; an associate; any object which is associated or combined with a similar object. \ (n.) Hence, specifically, a husband or wife; and among the lower animals, one of a pair associated for propagation and the care of their young. \ (n.) A suitable companion; a match; an equal. \ (n.) An officer in a merchant vessel ranking next below the captain. If there are more than one bearing the title, they are called, respectively, first mate, second mate, third mate, etc. In the navy, a subordinate officer or assistant; as, master's mate; surgeon's mate. \ (v. t.) To match; to marry. \ (v. t.) To match one's self against; to oppose as equal; to compete with. \ (v. i.) To be or become a mate or mates, especially in sexual companionship, some birds mate for life; this bird will not mate with that one.
ins material n. the substance, substances or matter of which something is made or from which something can be made, such as wood, cloth or stone; anything that can be made into something else \ (a.) Consisting of matter; not spiritual; corporeal; physical; as, material substance or bodies. \ (a.) Hence: Pertaining to, or affecting, the physical nature of man, as distinguished from the mental or moral nature; relating to the bodily wants, interests, and comforts. \ (a.) Of solid or weighty character; not insubstantial; of cinsequence; not be dispensed with; important. \ (a.) Pertaining to the matter, as opposed to the form, of a thing. See Matter. \ (n.) The substance or matter of which anything is made or may be made. \ (v. t.) To form from matter; to materialize.
ins mathematics n. the science dealing with amounts, sizes and shapes, as explained by numbers and signs \ (n.) That science, or class of sciences, which treats of the exact relations existing between quantities or magnitudes, and of the methods by which, in accordance with these relations, quantities sought are deducible from other quantities known or supposed; the science of spatial and quantitative relations.
ins maybe (adv.) Perhaps; possibly; peradventure. \ (a.) Possible; probable, but not sure. \ (n.) Possibility; uncertainty.
ins meaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Mean \ (n.) That which is meant or intended; intent; purpose; aim; object; as, a mischievous meaning was apparent. \ (n.) That which is signified, whether by act lanquage; signification; sence; import, the meaning of a hint. \ (n.) Sense; power of thinking.
ins measure v. to learn the amount, size or distance of something; n. an action taken; a legislative proposal
ins medal (n.) A piece of metal in the form of a coin, struck with a device, and intended to preserve the remembrance of a notable event or an illustrious person, or to serve as a reward. \ (v. t.) To honor or reward with a medal.
ins medical (a.) Of, pertaining to, or having to do with, the art of healing disease, or the science of medicine; as, the medical profession; medical services; a medical dictionary; medical jurisprudence. \ (a.) Containing medicine; used in medicine; medicinal, the medical properties of a plant.
ins medicine n. a substance or drug used to treat disease or pain; the science or study of treating and curing disease or improving health \ (n.) The science which relates to the prevention, cure, or alleviation of disease. \ (n.) Any substance administered in the treatment of disease; a remedial agent; a remedy; physic. \ (n.) A philter or love potion. \ (n.) A physician. \ (v. t.) To give medicine to; to affect as a medicine does; to remedy; to cure. \ (n.) Among the North American Indians, any object supposed to give control over natural or magical forces, to act as a protective charm, or to cause healing; also, magical power itself; the potency which a charm, token, or rite is supposed to exert. \ (n.) Hence, a similar object or agency among other savages. \ (n.) Short for Medicine man. \ (n.) Intoxicating liquor; drink.
ins melon (n.) The juicy fruit of certain cucurbitaceous plants, as the muskmelon, watermelon, and citron melon; also, the plant that produces the fruit. \ (n.) A large, ornamental, marine, univalve shell of the genus Melo.
ins melt v. to make a solid into a liquid by heating it \ (n.) See 2d Milt. \ (v.) To reduce from a solid to a liquid state, as by heat; to liquefy; as, to melt wax, tallow, or lead; to melt ice or snow. \ (v.) Hence: To soften, as by a warming or kindly influence; to relax; to render gentle or susceptible to mild influences; sometimes, in a bad sense, to take away the firmness of; to weaken. \ (v. i.) To be changed from a solid to a liquid state under the influence of heat, butter and wax melt at moderate temperatures. \ (v. i.) To dissolve, sugar melts in the mouth. \ (v. i.) Hence: To be softened; to become tender, mild, or gentle; also, to be weakened or subdued, as by fear. \ (v. i.) To lose distinct form or outline; to blend. \ (v. i.) To disappear by being dispersed or dissipated, the fog melts away.
ins mention (n.) A speaking or notice of anything, -- usually in a brief or cursory manner. Used especially in the phrase to make mention of. \ (v. t.) To make mention of; to speak briefly of; to name.
ins menu (n.) The details of a banquet; a bill of fare.
ins merry (superl.) Laughingly gay; overflowing with good humor and good spirits; jovial; inclined to laughter or play ; sportive. \ (superl.) Cheerful; joyous; not sad; happy. \ (superl.) Causing laughter, mirth, gladness, or delight; as, \ (n.) A kind of wild red cherry. / merry jest.
count
