clear
ins Christian (n.) One who believes, or professes or is assumed to believe, in Jesus Christ, and the truth as taught by Him; especially, one whose inward and outward life is conformed to the doctrines of Christ. \ (n.) One born in a Christian country or of Christian parents, and who has not definitely becomes an adherent of an opposing system. \ (n.) One of a Christian denomination which rejects human creeds as bases of fellowship, and sectarian names. They are congregational in church government, and baptize by immersion. They are also called Disciples of Christ, and Campbellites. \ (n.) One of a sect (called Christian Connection) of open-communion immersionists. The Bible is their only authoritative rule of faith and practice. \ (a.) Pertaining to Christ or his religion; as, Christian people. \ (a.) Pertaining to the church; ecclesiastical, a Christian court. \ (a.) Characteristic of Christian people; civilized; kind; kindly; gentle; beneficent.
ins accomplish (v. t.) To complete, as time or distance. \ (v. t.) To bring to an issue of full success; to effect; to perform; to execute fully; to fulfill; as, to accomplish a design, an object, a promise. \ (v. t.) To equip or furnish thoroughly; hence, to complete in acquirements; to render accomplished; to polish. \ (v. t.) To gain; to obtain.
ins acre (n.) Any field of arable or pasture land. \ (n.) A piece of land, containing 160 square rods, or 4,840 square yards, or 43,560 square feet. This is the English statute acre. That of the United States is the same. The Scotch acre was about 1.26 of the English, and the Irish 1.62 of the English.
ins advanced (imp. & p. p.) of Advance \ (a.) In the van or front. \ (a.) In the front or before others, as regards progress or ideas; as, advanced opinions, advanced thinkers. \ (a.) Far on in life or time.
ins amateur (n.) A person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science as to music or painting; esp. one who cultivates any study or art, from taste or attachment, without pursuing it professionally.
ins ancestor n. a family member from the past \ (n.) One from whom a person is descended, whether on the father's or mother's side, at any distance of time; a progenitor; a fore father. \ (n.) An earlier type; as, this fossil animal is regarded as the ancestor of the horse. \ (n.) One from whom an estate has descended; -- the correlative of heir.
ins apparent (a.) Capable of being seen, or easily seen; open to view; visible to the eye; within sight or view. \ (a.) Clear or manifest to the understanding; plain; evident; obvious; known; palpable; indubitable. \ (a.) Appearing to the eye or mind (distinguished from, but not necessarily opposed to, true or real); seeming; as the apparent motion or diameter of the sun. \ (n.) An heir apparent.
ins artificial (a.) Made or contrived by art; produced or modified by human skill and labor, in opposition to natural; as, artificial heat or light, gems, salts, minerals, fountains, flowers. \ (a.) Feigned; fictitious; assumed; affected; not genuine. \ (a.) Artful; cunning; crafty. \ (a.) Cultivated; not indigenous; not of spontaneous growth, artificial grasses.
ins assume (v. t.) To take to or upon one's self; to take formally and demonstratively; sometimes, to appropriate or take unjustly. \ (v. t.) To take for granted, or without proof; to suppose as a fact; to suppose or take arbitrarily or tentatively. \ (v. t.) To pretend to possess; to take in appearance. \ (v. t.) To receive or adopt. \ (v. i.) To be arrogant or pretentious; to claim more than is due. \ (v. i.) To undertake, as by a promise.
ins beaver (n.) An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor. \ (n.) The fur of the beaver. \ (n.) A hat, formerly made of the fur of the beaver, but now usually of silk. \ (n.) Beaver cloth, a heavy felted woolen cloth, used chiefly for making overcoats. \ (n.) That piece of armor which protected the lower part of the face, whether forming a part of the helmet or fixed to the breastplate. It was so constructed (with joints or otherwise) that the wearer could raise or lower it to eat and drink.
ins bitterly (adv.) In a bitter manner.
ins bodyguard (n.) A guard to protect or defend the person; a lifeguard. \ (n.) Retinue; attendance; following.
ins brass (n.) An alloy (usually yellow) of copper and zinc, in variable proportion, but often containing two parts of copper to one part of zinc. It sometimes contains tin, and rarely other metals. \ (n.) A journal bearing, so called because frequently made of brass. A brass is often lined with a softer metal, when the latter is generally called a white metal lining. See Axle box, Journal Box, and Bearing. \ (n.) Coin made of copper, brass, or bronze. \ (n.) Impudence; a brazen face. \ (n.) Utensils, ornaments, or other articles of brass. \ (n.) A brass plate engraved with a figure or device. Specifically, one used as a memorial to the dead, and generally having the portrait, coat of arms, etc. \ (n.) Lumps of pyrites or sulphuret of iron, the color of which is near to that of brass.
ins burden (n.) That which is borne or carried; a load. \ (n.) That which is borne with labor or difficulty; that which is grievous, wearisome, or oppressive. \ (n.) The capacity of a vessel, or the weight of cargo that she will carry; as, a ship of a hundred tons burden. \ (n.) The tops or heads of stream-work which lie over the stream of tin. \ (n.) The proportion of ore and flux to fuel, in the charge of a blast furnace. \ (n.) A fixed quantity of certain commodities, a burden of gad steel, 120 pounds. \ (n.) A birth. \ (v. t.) To encumber with weight (literal or figurative); to lay a heavy load upon; to load. \ (v. t.) To oppress with anything grievous or trying; to overload, to burden a nation with taxes. \ (v. t.) To impose, as a load or burden; to lay or place as a burden (something heavy or objectionable). \ (n.) The verse repeated in a song, or the return of the theme at the end of each stanza; the chorus; refrain. Hence: That which is often repeated or which is dwelt upon; the main topic, the burden of a prayer. \ (n.) The drone of a bagpipe. \ (n.) A club.
ins cancer n. a disease in which dangerous cells grow quickly and destroy parts of the body
ins celery (n.) A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens), of which the blanched leafstalks are used as a salad.
ins chess (n.) A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with two differently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set. Each player has a king, a queen, two bishops, two knights, two castles or rooks, and eight pawns. \ (n.) A species of brome grass (Bromus secalinus) which is a troublesome weed in wheat fields, and is often erroneously regarded as degenerate or changed wheat; it bears a very slight resemblance to oats, and if reaped and ground up with wheat, so as to be used for food, is said to produce narcotic effects; -- called also cheat and Willard's bromus.
ins civil (a.) Pertaining to a city or state, or to a citizen in his relations to his fellow citizens or to the state; within the city or state. \ (a.) Subject to government; reduced to order; civilized; not barbarous; -- said of the community. \ (a.) Performing the duties of a citizen; obedient to government; -- said of an individual. \ (a.) Having the manners of one dwelling in a city, as opposed to those of savages or rustics; polite; courteous; complaisant; affable. \ (a.) Pertaining to civic life and affairs, in distinction from military, ecclesiastical, or official state. \ (a.) Relating to rights and remedies sought by action or suit distinct from criminal proceedings.
ins compete v. to try to do as well as, or better than, another or others \ (v. i.) To contend emulously; to seek or strive for the same thing, position, or reward for which another is striving; to contend in rivalry, as for a prize or in business; as, tradesmen compete with one another.
ins concerning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Concern \ (prep.) Pertaining to; regarding; having relation to; respecting; as regards. \ (a.) Important. \ (n.) That in which one is concerned or interested; concern; affair; interest. \ (n.) Importance; moment; consequence. \ (n.) Concern; participation; interposition. \ (n.) Emotion of mind; solicitude; anxiety.
ins conscience (n.) Knowledge of one's own thoughts or actions; consciousness. \ (n.) The faculty, power, or inward principle which decides as to the character of one's own actions, purposes, and affections, warning against and condemning that which is wrong, and approving and prompting to that which is right; the moral faculty passing judgment on one's self; the moral sense. \ (n.) The estimate or determination of conscience; conviction or right or duty. \ (n.) Tenderness of feeling; pity.
ins construction (n.) The process or art of constructing; the act of building; erection; the act of devising and forming; fabrication; composition. \ (n.) The form or manner of building or putting together the parts of anything; structure; arrangement. \ (n.) The arrangement and connection of words in a sentence; syntactical arrangement. \ (n.) The method of construing, interpreting, or explaining a declaration or fact; an attributed sense or meaning; understanding; explanation; interpretation; sense.
ins conventional (a.) Formed by agreement or compact; stipulated. \ (a.) Growing out of, or depending on, custom or tacit agreement; sanctioned by general concurrence or usage; formal. \ (a.) Based upon tradition, whether religious and historical or of artistic rules. \ (a.) Abstracted; removed from close representation of nature by the deliberate selection of what is to be represented and what is to be rejected; as, a conventional flower; a conventional shell. Cf. Conventionalize, v. t.
ins cosmos (n.) The universe or universality of created things; -- so called from the order and harmony displayed in it. \ (n.) The theory or description of the universe, as a system displaying order and harmony. \ (n.) A genus of composite plants closely related to Bidens, usually with very showy flowers, some with yellow, others with red, scarlet, purple, white, or lilac rays. They are natives of the warmer parts of America, and many species are cultivated. Cosmos bipinnatus and C. diversifolius are among the best-known species; C. caudatus, of the West Indies, is widely naturalized.
ins creep (v. t.) To move along the ground, or on any other surface, on the belly, as a worm or reptile; to move as a child on the hands and knees; to crawl. \ (v. t.) To move slowly, feebly, or timorously, as from unwillingness, fear, or weakness. \ (v. t.) To move in a stealthy or secret manner; to move imperceptibly or clandestinely; to steal in; to insinuate itself or one's self; as, age creeps upon us. \ (v. t.) To slip, or to become slightly displaced, the collodion on a negative, or a coat of varnish, may creep in drying; the quicksilver on a mirror may creep. \ (v. t.) To move or behave with servility or exaggerated humility; to fawn, a creeping sycophant. \ (v. t.) To grow, as a vine, clinging to the ground or to some other support by means of roots or rootlets, or by tendrils, along its length. \ (v. t.) To have a sensation as of insects creeping on the skin of the body; to crawl, the sight made my flesh creep. See Crawl, v. i., 4. \ (v. i.) To drag in deep water with creepers, as for recovering a submarine cable. \ (n.) The act or process of creeping. \ (n.) A distressing sensation, or sound, like that occasioned by the creeping of insects. \ (n.) A slow rising of the floor of a gallery, occasioned by the pressure of incumbent strata upon the pillars or sides; a gradual movement of mining ground.
ins cultural (a.) Of or pertaining to culture.
ins deadly (a.) Capable of causing death; mortal; fatal; destructive; certain or likely to cause death; as, a deadly blow or wound. \ (a.) Aiming or willing to destroy; implacable; desperately hostile; flagitious, deadly enemies. \ (a.) Subject to death; mortal. \ (adv.) In a manner resembling, or as if produced by, death. \ (adv.) In a manner to occasion death; mortally. \ (adv.) In an implacable manner; destructively. \ (adv.) Extremely.
ins depart (v. i.) To part; to divide; to separate. \ (v. i.) To go forth or away; to quit, leave, or separate, as from a place or a person; to withdraw; -- opposed to arrive; -- often with from before the place, person, or thing left, and for or to before the destination. \ (v. i.) To forsake; to abandon; to desist or deviate (from); not to adhere to; -- with from; as, we can not depart from our rules; to depart from a title or defense in legal pleading. \ (v. i.) To pass away; to perish. \ (v. i.) To quit this world; to die. \ (v. t.) To part thoroughly; to dispart; to separate. \ (v. t.) To divide in order to share; to apportion. \ (v. t.) To leave; to depart from. \ (n.) Division; separation, as of compound substances into their ingredients. \ (n.) A going away; departure; hence, death.
ins destination (n.) The act of destining or appointing. \ (n.) Purpose for which anything is destined; predetermined end, object, or use; ultimate design. \ (n.) The place set for the end of a journey, or to which something is sent; place or point aimed at.
ins digital (a.) Of or performance to the fingers, or to digits; done with the fingers; as, digital compression; digital examination.
ins dive v. to jump into water head first \ (v. i.) To plunge into water head foremost; to thrust the body under, or deeply into, water or other fluid. \ (v. i.) Fig.: To plunge or to go deeply into any subject, question, business, etc.; to penetrate; to explore. \ (v. t.) To plunge (a person or thing) into water; to dip; to duck. \ (v. t.) To explore by diving; to plunge into. \ (n.) A plunge headforemost into water, the act of one who dives, literally or figuratively. \ (n.) A place of low resort. \ (pl. ) of Diva
ins dried (imp. & p. p.) of Day. Also adj.; as, dried apples. \ (imp. & p. p.) of Dry
ins editor (n.) One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends, revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., for publication.
ins emotional (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, emotion; excitable; easily moved; sensational; as, an emotional nature.
ins endure (v. i.) To continue in the same state without perishing; to last; to remain. \ (v. i.) To remain firm, as under trial or suffering; to suffer patiently or without yielding; to bear up under adversity; to hold out. \ (v. t.) To remain firm under; to sustain; to undergo; to support without breaking or yielding; as, metals endure a certain degree of heat without melting; to endure wind and weather. \ (v. t.) To bear with patience; to suffer without opposition or without sinking under the pressure or affliction; to bear up under; to put up with; to tolerate. \ (v. t.) To harden; to toughen; to make hardy.
ins enthusiastic (a.) Alt. of Enthusiastical \ (n.) An enthusiast; a zealot.
ins explode v. to break apart violently with a loud noise, like a bomb \ (v. i.) To become suddenly expanded into a great volume of gas or vapor; to burst violently into flame; as gunpowder explodes. \ (v. i.) To burst with force and a loud report; to detonate, as a shell filled with powder or the like material, or as a boiler from too great pressure of steam. \ (v. i.) To burst forth with sudden violence and noise; as, at this, his wrath exploded. \ (v. t.) To drive from the stage by noisy expressions of disapprobation; to hoot off; to drive away or reject noisily, to explode a play. \ (v. t.) To bring into disrepute, and reject; to drive from notice and acceptance, to explode a scheme, fashion, or doctrine. \ (v. t.) To cause to explode or burst noisily, to explode powder by touching it with fire. \ (v. t.) To drive out with violence and noise, as by powder.
ins factor (n.) One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute; especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transacts business for others in commission; a commission merchant or consignee. He may be a home factor or a foreign factor. He may buy and sell in his own name, and he is intrusted with the possession and control of the goods; and in these respects he differs from a broker. \ (n.) A steward or bailiff of an estate. \ (n.) One of the elements or quantities which, when multiplied together, from a product. \ (n.) One of the elements, circumstances, or influences which contribute to produce a result; a constituent. \ (v. t.) To resolve (a quantity) into its factors.
ins fatal (a.) Proceeding from, or appointed by, fate or destiny; necessary; inevitable. \ (a.) Foreboding death or great disaster. \ (a.) Causing death or destruction; deadly; mortal; destructive; calamitous; as, a fatal wound; a fatal disease; a fatal day; a fatal error.
ins fitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fit \ (n.) Anything used in fitting up \ (n.) necessary fixtures or apparatus; as, the fittings of a church or study; gas fittings. \ (a.) Fit; appropriate; suitable; proper.
ins formation (n.) The act of giving form or shape to anything; a forming; a shaping. \ (n.) The manner in which a thing is formed; structure; construction; conformation; form; as, the peculiar formation of the heart. \ (n.) A substance formed or deposited. \ (n.) Mineral deposits and rock masses designated with reference to their origin, the siliceous formation about geysers; alluvial formations; marine formations. \ (n.) A group of beds of the same age or period, the Eocene formation. \ (n.) The arrangement of a body of troops, as in a square, column, etc.
ins frontier (n.) That part of a country which fronts or faces another country or an unsettled region; the marches; the border, confine, or extreme part of a country, bordering on another country; the border of the settled and cultivated part of a country; as, the frontier of civilization. \ (n.) An outwork. \ (a.) Lying on the exterior part; bordering; conterminous, a frontier town. \ (a.) Of or relating to a frontier. \ (v. i.) To constitute or form a frontier; to have a frontier; -- with on.
ins gesture (n.) Manner of carrying the body; position of the body or limbs; posture. \ (n.) A motion of the body or limbs expressive of sentiment or passion; any action or posture intended to express an idea or a passion, or to enforce or emphasize an argument, assertion, or opinion. \ (v. t.) To accompany or illustrate with gesture or action; to gesticulate. \ (v. i.) To make gestures; to gesticulate.
ins grain n. the seed of grass plants used for food, such as wheat, rice and corn; those plants that produce the seeds \ (v. & n.) See Groan. \ (n.) A single small hard seed; a kernel, especially of those plants, like wheat, whose seeds are used for food. \ (n.) The fruit of certain grasses which furnish the chief food of man, as corn, wheat, rye, oats, etc., or the plants themselves; -- used collectively. \ (n.) Any small, hard particle, as of sand, sugar, salt; hence, any minute portion or particle; as, a grain of gunpowder, of pollen, of starch, of sense, of wit, etc. \ (n.) The unit of the English system of weights; -- so called because considered equal to the average of grains taken from the middle of the ears of wheat. 7,000 grains constitute the pound avoirdupois, and 5,760 grains the pound troy. A grain is equal to .0648 gram. See Gram.  \ (n.) A reddish dye made from the coccus insect, or kermes, a red color of any tint or hue, as crimson, scarlet; sometimes used by the poets as equivalent to Tyrian purple. \ (n.) The composite particles of any substance; that arrangement of the particles of any body which determines its comparative roughness or hardness; texture, marble, sandstone, of fine grain. \ (n.) The direction, arrangement, or appearance of the fibers in wood, or of the strata in stone, slate, etc. \ (n.) The fiber which forms the substance of wood or of any fibrous material. \ (n.) The hair side of a piece of leather, or the marking on that side. \ (n.) The remains of grain, after brewing or distillation, any residuum. Also called draff. \ (n.) A rounded prominence on the back of a sepal, as in the common dock. See Grained, a., 4. \ (a.) Temper; natural disposition; inclination. \ (a.) A sort of spice, the grain of paradise. \ (v. t.) To paint in imitation of the grain of wood, etc. \ (v. t.) To form (powder, sugar, etc.) into grains. \ (v. t.) To take the hair off (skins); to soften and raise the grain of (leather, etc.). \ (n.) To yield fruit. \ (n.) To form grains, or to assume a granular ferm, as the result of crystallization; to granulate. \ (n.) A branch of a tree; a stalk or stem of a plant. \ (n.) A tine, prong, or fork. \ (n.) One the branches of a valley or of a river. \ (n.) An iron first speak or harpoon, having four or more barbed points. \ (n.) A blade of a sword, knife, etc. \ (n.) A thin piece of metal, used in a mold to steady a core.
ins guilt (v. t.) The criminality and consequent exposure to punishment resulting from willful disobedience of law, or from morally wrong action; the state of one who has broken a moral or political law; crime; criminality; offense against right. \ (v. t.) Exposure to any legal penalty or forfeiture.
ins hesitate (v. i.) To stop or pause respecting decision or action; to be in suspense or uncertainty as to a determination; as, he hesitated whether to accept the offer or not; men often hesitate in forming a judgment. \ (v. i.) To stammer; to falter in speaking. \ (v. t.) To utter with hesitation or to intimate by a reluctant manner.
ins honestly (adv.) Honorably; becomingly; decently. \ (adv.) In an honest manner; as, a contract honestly made; to live honestly; to speak honestly.
ins humble (superl.) Near the ground; not high or lofty; not pretentious or magnificent; unpretending; unassuming; as, a humble cottage. \ (superl.) Thinking lowly of one's self; claiming little for one's self; not proud, arrogant, or assuming; thinking one's self ill-deserving or unworthy, when judged by the demands of God; lowly; waek; modest. \ (a.) Hornless. See Hummel. \ (v. t.) To bring low; to reduce the power, independence, or exaltation of; to lower; to abase; to humilate. \ (v. t.) To make humble or lowly in mind; to abase the pride or arrogance of; to reduce the self-sufficiently of; to make meek and submissive; -- often used rexlexively.
ins imitate (v. t.) To follow as a pattern, model, or example; to copy or strive to copy, in acts, manners etc. \ (v. t.) To produce a semblance or likeness of, in form, character, color, qualities, conduct, manners, and the like; to counterfeit; to copy. \ (v. t.) To resemble (another species of animal, or a plant, or inanimate object) in form, ornamentation, or instinctive habits, so as to derive an advantage thereby; sa, when a harmless snake imitates a venomous one in color and manner, or when an odorless insect imitates, in color, one having secretion offensive to birds.
ins indicate (v. t.) To point out; to discover; to direct to a knowledge of; to show; to make known. \ (v. t.) To show or manifest by symptoms; to point to as the proper remedies; as, great prostration of strength indicates the use of stimulants. \ (v. t.) To investigate the condition or power of, as of steam engine, by means of an indicator.
ins inspire (v. t.) To breathe into; to fill with the breath; to animate. \ (v. t.) To infuse by breathing, or as if by breathing. \ (v. t.) To draw in by the operation of breathing; to inhale; -- opposed to expire. \ (v. t.) To infuse into the mind; to communicate to the spirit; to convey, as by a divine or supernatural influence; to disclose preternaturally; to produce in, as by inspiration. \ (v. t.) To infuse into; to affect, as with a superior or supernatural influence; to fill with what animates, enlivens, or exalts; to communicate inspiration to; as, to inspire a child with sentiments of virtue. \ (v. i.) To draw in breath; to inhale air into the lungs; -- opposed to expire. \ (v. i.) To breathe; to blow gently.
ins interfere v. to get in the way of; to work against; to take part in the activities of others, especially when not asked to do so \ (v. i.) To come in collision; to be in opposition; to clash; as, interfering claims, or commands. \ (v. i.) To enter into, or take a part in, the concerns of others; to intermeddle; to interpose. \ (v. i.) To strike one foot against the opposite foot or ankle in using the legs; -- sometimes said of a human being, but usually of a horse, the horse interferes. \ (v. i.) To act reciprocally, so as to augment, diminish, or otherwise affect one another; -- said of waves, rays of light, heat, etc. See Interference, 2. \ (v. i.) To cover the same ground; to claim the same invention.
ins investigation (n.) The act of investigating; the process of inquiring into or following up; research; study; inquiry, esp. patient or thorough inquiry or examination; as, the investigations of the philosopher and the mathematician; the investigations of the judge, the moralist.
ins judgment (v. i.) The act of judging; the operation of the mind, involving comparison and discrimination, by which a knowledge of the values and relations of thins, whether of moral qualities, intellectual concepts, logical propositions, or material facts, is obtained; as, by careful judgment he avoided the peril; by a series of wrong judgments he forfeited confidence. \ (v. i.) The power or faculty of performing such operations (see 1); esp., when unqualified, the faculty of judging or deciding rightly, justly, or wisely; good sense, a man of judgment; a politician without judgment. \ (v. i.) The conclusion or result of judging; an opinion; a decision. \ (v. i.) The act of determining, as in courts of law, what is conformable to law and justice; also, the determination, decision, or sentence of a court, or of a judge; the mandate or sentence of God as the judge of all. \ (v. i.) That act of the mind by which two notions or ideas which are apprehended as distinct are compared for the purpose of ascertaining their agreement or disagreement. See 1. The comparison may be threefold: (1) Of individual objects forming a concept. (2) Of concepts giving what is technically called a judgment. (3) Of two judgments giving an inference. Judgments have been further classed as analytic, synthetic, and identical. \ (v. i.) That power or faculty by which knowledge dependent upon comparison and discrimination is acquired. See 2. \ (v. i.) A calamity regarded as sent by God, by way of recompense for wrong committed; a providential punishment. \ (v. i.) The final award; the last sentence.
ins learner (n.) One who learns; a scholar.
ins linen (n.) Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking. \ (n.) Resembling linen cloth; white; pale. \ (n.) Thread or cloth made of flax or (rarely) of hemp; -- used in a general sense to include cambric, shirting, sheeting, towels, tablecloths, etc. \ (n.) Underclothing, esp. the shirt, as being, in former times, chiefly made of linen.
ins logical (a.) Of or pertaining to logic; used in logic; as, logical subtilties. \ (a.) According to the rules of logic, a logical argument or inference; the reasoning is logical. \ (a.) Skilled in logic; versed in the art of thinking and reasoning, he is a logical thinker.
ins maid (n.) An unmarried woman; usually, a young unmarried woman; esp., a girl; a virgin; a maiden. \ (n.) A man who has not had sexual intercourse. \ (n.) A female servant. \ (n.) The female of a ray or skate, esp. of the gray skate (Raia batis), and of the thornback (R. clavata).
ins mast (n.) The fruit of the oak and beech, or other forest trees; nuts; acorns. \ (n.) A pole, or long, strong, round piece of timber, or spar, set upright in a boat or vessel, to sustain the sails, yards, rigging, etc. A mast may also consist of several pieces of timber united by iron bands, or of a hollow pillar of iron or steel. \ (n.) The vertical post of a derrick or crane. \ (v. t.) To furnish with a mast or masts; to put the masts of in position; as, to mast a ship. \ (n.) A spar or strut to which tie wires or guys are attached for stiffening purposes.
ins medium (n.) That which lies in the middle, or between other things; intervening body or quantity. Hence, specifically: (a) Middle place or degree; mean. \ (n.) See Mean. \ (n.) The mean or middle term of a syllogism; that by which the extremes are brought into connection. \ (n.) A substance through which an effect is transmitted from one thing to another; as, air is the common medium of sound. Hence: The condition upon which any event or action occurs; necessary means of motion or action; that through or by which anything is accomplished, conveyed, or carried on; specifically, in animal magnetism, spiritualism, etc., a person through whom the action of another being is said to be manifested and transmitted. \ (n.) An average. \ (n.) A trade name for printing and writing paper of certain sizes. See Paper. \ (n.) The liquid vehicle with which dry colors are ground and prepared for application. \ (a.) Having a middle position or degree; mean; intermediate; medial, a horse of medium size; a decoction of medium strength.
ins millionaire (n.) One whose wealth is counted by millions of francs, dollars, or pounds; a very rich person; a person worth a million or more.
ins mixed (imp. & p. p.) of Mix \ (a.) Formed by mixing; united; mingled; blended. See Mix, v. t. & i.
ins nap (v. i.) To have a short sleep; to be drowsy; to doze. \ (v. i.) To be in a careless, secure state. \ (n.) A short sleep; a doze; a siesta. \ (n.) Woolly or villous surface of felt, cloth, plants, etc.; an external covering of down, of short fine hairs or fibers forming part of the substance of anything, and lying smoothly in one direction; the pile; -- as, the nap of cotton flannel or of broadcloth. \ (n.) The loops which are cut to make the pile, in velvet. \ (v. t.) To raise, or put, a nap on. \ (n.) Same as Napoleon, 1, below.
ins obtain (v. t.) To hold; to keep; to possess. \ (v. t.) To get hold of by effort; to gain possession of; to procure; to acquire, in any way. \ (v. i.) To become held; to gain or have a firm footing; to be recognized or established; to subsist; to become prevalent or general; to prevail; as, the custom obtains of going to the seashore in summer. \ (v. i.) To prevail; to succeed. \ (v. i.) To gain or have a firm footing; to become recognized or established; to become or be prevalent or general, the custom obtains of going to the seashore in summer.
ins originally (adv.) In the original time, or in an original manner; primarily; from the beginning or origin; not by derivation, or imitation. \ (adv.) At first; at the origin; at the time of formation or costruction; as, a book originally written by another hand.
ins overcome (p. p.) of Overcome \ (v. t.) To get the better of; to surmount; to conquer; to subdue; as, to overcome enemies in battle. \ (v. t.) To overflow; to surcharge. \ (v. t.) To come or pass over; to spreads over. \ (v. i.) To gain the superiority; to be victorious.
ins paragraph (n.) Originally, a marginal mark or note, set in the margin to call attention to something in the text, e. g., a change of subject; now, the character /, commonly used in the text as a reference mark to a footnote, or to indicate the place of a division into sections. \ (n.) A distinct part of a discourse or writing; any section or subdivision of a writing or chapter which relates to a particular point, whether consisting of one or many sentences. The division is sometimes noted by the mark /, but usually, by beginning the first sentence of the paragraph on a new line and at more than the usual distance from the margin. \ (n.) A brief composition complete in one typographical section or paragraph; an item, remark, or quotation comprised in a few lines forming one paragraph; as, a column of news paragraphs; an editorial paragraph. \ (v. t.) To divide into paragraphs; to mark with the character /. \ (v. t.) To express in the compass of a paragraph, to paragraph an article. \ (v. t.) To mention in a paragraph or paragraphs
ins peculiar (a.) One's own; belonging solely or especially to an individual; not possessed by others; of private, personal, or characteristic possession and use; not owned in common or in participation. \ (a.) Particular; individual; special; appropriate. \ (a.) Unusual; singular; rare; strange; as, the sky had a peculiarappearance. \ (n.) That which is peculiar; a sole or exclusive property; a prerogative; a characteristic. \ (n.) A particular parish or church which is exempt from the jurisdiction of the ordinary.
ins pit (n.) A large cavity or hole in the ground, either natural or artificial; a cavity in the surface of a body; an indentation \ (n.) The shaft of a coal mine; a coal pit. \ (n.) A large hole in the ground from which material is dug or quarried; as, a stone pit; a gravel pit; or in which material is made by burning, a lime pit; a charcoal pit. \ (n.) A vat sunk in the ground, a tan pit. \ (n.) Any abyss; especially, the grave, or hades. \ (n.) A covered deep hole for entrapping wild beasts; a pitfall; hence, a trap; a snare. Also used figuratively. \ (n.) A depression or hollow in the surface of the human body \ (n.) The hollow place under the shoulder or arm; the axilla, or armpit. \ (n.) See Pit of the stomach (below). \ (n.) The indentation or mark left by a pustule, as in smallpox. \ (n.) Formerly, that part of a theater, on the floor of the house, below the level of the stage and behind the orchestra; now, in England, commonly the part behind the stalls; in the United States, the parquet; also, the occupants of such a part of a theater. \ (n.) An inclosed area into which gamecocks, dogs, and other animals are brought to fight, or where dogs are trained to kill rats. \ (n.) The endocarp of a drupe, and its contained seed or seeds; a stone, a peach pit; a cherry pit, etc. \ (n.) A depression or thin spot in the wall of a duct. \ (v. t.) To place or put into a pit or hole. \ (v. t.) To mark with little hollows, as by various pustules, a face pitted by smallpox. \ (v. t.) To introduce as an antagonist; to set forward for or in a contest, to pit one dog against another. \ A cellar or excavation used for refuge from a cyclone, or tornado.
ins portion (n.) That which is divided off or separated, as a part from a whole; a separated part of anything. \ (n.) A part considered by itself, though not actually cut off or separated from the whole. \ (n.) A part assigned; allotment; share; fate. \ (n.) The part of an estate given to a child or heir, or descending to him by law, and distributed to him in the settlement of the estate; an inheritance. \ (n.) A wife's fortune; a dowry. \ (v. t.) To separate or divide into portions or shares; to parcel; to distribute. \ (v. t.) To endow with a portion or inheritance.
ins precise (a.) Having determinate limitations; exactly or sharply defined or stated; definite; exact; nice; not vague or equivocal; as, precise rules of morality. \ (a.) Strictly adhering or conforming to rule; very nice or exact; punctilious in conduct or ceremony; formal; ceremonious.
ins privilege (n.) A peculiar benefit, advantage, or favor; a right or immunity not enjoyed by others or by all; special enjoyment of a good, or exemption from an evil or burden; a prerogative; franchise. \ (n.) See Call, Put, Spread, etc. \ (v. t.) To grant some particular right or exemption to; to invest with a peculiar right or immunity; to authorize; as, to privilege representatives from arrest. \ (v. t.) To bring or put into a condition of privilege or exemption from evil or danger; to exempt; to deliver.
ins purely (adv.) In a pure manner (in any sense of the adjective). \ (adv.) Nicely; prettily.
ins razor (v. t.) A keen-edged knife of peculiar shape, used in shaving the hair from the face or the head. \ (v. t.) A tusk of a wild boar.
ins recommendation (n.) The act of recommending. \ (n.) That which recommends, or commends to favor; anything procuring, or tending to procure, a favorable reception, or to secure acceptance and adoption; as, he brought excellent recommendations. \ (n.) The state of being recommended; esteem.
ins related (imp. & p. p.) of Relate \ (p. p. & a.) Allied by kindred; connected by blood or alliance, particularly by consanguinity; as, persons related in the first or second degree. \ (p. p. & a.) Standing in relation or connection, the electric and magnetic forcec are closely related. \ (p. p. & a.) Narrated; told. \ (p. p. & a.) Same as Relative, 4.
ins representative (a.) Fitted to represent; exhibiting a similitude. \ (a.) Bearing the character or power of another; acting for another or others; as, a council representative of the people. \ (a.) Conducted by persons chosen to represent, or act as deputies for, the people, a representative government. \ (a.) Serving or fitted to present the full characters of the type of a group; typical, a representative genus in a family. \ (a.) Similar in general appearance, structure, and habits, but living in different regions; -- said of certain species and varieties. \ (a.) Giving, or existing as, a transcript of what was originally presentative knowledge, representative faculties; representative knowledge. See Presentative, 3 and Represent, 8. \ (n.) One who, or that which, represents (anything); that which exhibits a likeness or similitude. \ (n.) An agent, deputy, or substitute, who supplies the place of another, or others, being invested with his or their authority. \ (n.) One who represents, or stands in the place of, another. \ (n.) A member of the lower or popular house in a State legislature, or in the national Congress. \ (n.) That which presents the full character of the type of a group. \ (n.) A species or variety which, in any region, takes the place of a similar one in another region.
ins resistance (n.) The act of resisting; opposition, passive or active. \ (n.) The quality of not yielding to force or external pressure; that power of a body which acts in opposition to the impulse or pressure of another, or which prevents the effect of another power; as, the resistance of the air to a body passing through it; the resistance of a target to projectiles. \ (n.) A means or method of resisting; that which resists. \ (n.) A certain hindrance or opposition to the passage of an electrical current or discharge offered by conducting bodies. It bears an inverse relation to the conductivity, -- good conductors having a small resistance, while poor conductors or insulators have a very high resistance. The unit of resistance is the ohm.
ins retired (imp. & p. p.) of Retire \ (a.) Private; secluded; quiet; as, a retired life; a person of retired habits. \ (a.) Withdrawn from active duty or business, a retired officer; a retired physician.
ins sacrifice v. to do without something or to suffer a loss for a belief, idea, goal or another person \ (n.) The offering of anything to God, or to a god; consecratory rite. \ (n.) Anything consecrated and offered to God, or to a divinity; an immolated victim, or an offering of any kind, laid upon an altar, or otherwise presented in the way of religious thanksgiving, atonement, or conciliation. \ (n.) Destruction or surrender of anything for the sake of something else; devotion of some desirable object in behalf of a higher object, or to a claim deemed more pressing; hence, also, the thing so devoted or given up; as, the sacrifice of interest to pleasure, or of pleasure to interest. \ (n.) A sale at a price less than the cost or the actual value. \ (n.) To make an offering of; to consecrate or present to a divinity by way of expiation or propitiation, or as a token acknowledgment or thanksgiving; to immolate on the altar of God, in order to atone for sin, to procure favor, or to express thankfulness, to sacrifice an ox or a sheep. \ (n.) Hence, to destroy, surrender, or suffer to be lost, for the sake of obtaining something; to give up in favor of a higher or more imperative object or duty; to devote, with loss or suffering. \ (n.) To destroy; to kill. \ (n.) To sell at a price less than the cost or the actual value. \ (v. i.) To make offerings to God, or to a deity, of things consumed on the altar; to offer sacrifice.
ins scare (v. t.) To frighten; to strike with sudden fear; to alarm. \ (n.) Fright; esp., sudden fright produced by a trifling cause, or originating in mistake.
ins sensation (n.) An impression, or the consciousness of an impression, made upon the central nervous organ, through the medium of a sensory or afferent nerve or one of the organs of sense; a feeling, or state of consciousness, whether agreeable or disagreeable, produced either by an external object (stimulus), or by some change in the internal state of the body. \ (n.) A purely spiritual or psychical affection; agreeable or disagreeable feelings occasioned by objects that are not corporeal or material. \ (n.) A state of excited interest or feeling, or that which causes it.
ins shift (v. t.) To divide; to distribute; to apportion. \ (v. t.) To change the place of; to move or remove from one place to another; as, to shift a burden from one shoulder to another; to shift the blame. \ (v. t.) To change the position of; to alter the bearings of; to turn, to shift the helm or sails. \ (v. t.) To exchange for another of the same class; to remove and to put some similar thing in its place; to change, to shift the clothes; to shift the scenes. \ (v. t.) To change the clothing of; -- used reflexively. \ (v. t.) To put off or out of the way by some expedient. \ (v. t.) The act of shifting. \ (v. t.) The act of putting one thing in the place of another, or of changing the place of a thing; change; substitution. \ (v. t.) Something frequently shifted; especially, a woman's under-garment; a chemise. \ (v. t.) The change of one set of workmen for another; hence, a spell, or turn, of work; also, a set of workmen who work in turn with other sets, a night shift. \ (v. t.) In building, the extent, or arrangement, of the overlapping of plank, brick, stones, etc., that are placed in courses so as to break joints. \ (v. t.) A breaking off and dislocation of a seam; a fault. \ (v. t.) A change of the position of the hand on the finger board, in playing the violin.
ins skip (n.) A basket. See Skep. \ (n.) A basket on wheels, used in cotton factories. \ (n.) An iron bucket, which slides between guides, for hoisting mineral and rock. \ (n.) A charge of sirup in the pans. \ (n.) A beehive; a skep. \ (v. i.) To leap lightly; to move in leaps and hounds; -- commonly implying a sportive spirit. \ (v. i.) Fig.: To leave matters unnoticed, as in reading, speaking, or writing; to pass by, or overlook, portions of a thing; -- often followed by over. \ (v. t.) To leap lightly over; as, to skip the rope. \ (v. t.) To pass over or by without notice; to omit; to miss, to skip a line in reading; to skip a lesson. \ (v. t.) To cause to skip, to skip a stone. \ (n.) A light leap or bound. \ (n.) The act of passing over an interval from one thing to another; an omission of a part. \ (n.) A passage from one sound to another by more than a degree at once.
ins sorrow (n.) The uneasiness or pain of mind which is produced by the loss of any good, real or supposed, or by diseappointment in the expectation of good; grief at having suffered or occasioned evil; regret; unhappiness; sadness. \ (n.) To feel pain of mind in consequence of evil experienced, feared, or done; to grieve; to be sad; to be sorry.
ins spiritual (a.) Consisting of spirit; not material; incorporeal; as, a spiritual substance or being. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the intellectual and higher endowments of the mind; mental; intellectual. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the moral feelings or states of the soul, as distinguished from the external actions; reaching and affecting the spirits. \ (a.) Of or pertaining to the soul or its affections as influenced by the Spirit; controlled and inspired by the divine Spirit; proceeding from the Holy Spirit; pure; holy; divine; heavenly-minded; -- opposed to carnal. \ (a.) Not lay or temporal; relating to sacred things; ecclesiastical, the spiritual functions of the clergy; lords spiritual and temporal; a spiritual corporation. \ (n.) A spiritual function, office, or affair. See Spirituality, 2.
ins stable (v. i.) Firmly established; not easily moved, shaken, or overthrown; fixed; as, a stable government. \ (v. i.) Steady in purpose; constant; firm in resolution; not easily diverted from a purpose; not fickle or wavering, a man of stable character. \ (v. i.) Durable; not subject to overthrow or change; firm, a stable foundation; a stable position. \ (v. t.) To fix; to establish. \ (v. i.) A house, shed, or building, for beasts to lodge and feed in; esp., a building or apartment with stalls, for horses, a horse stable; a cow stable. \ (v. t.) To put or keep in a stable. \ (v. i.) To dwell or lodge in a stable; to dwell in an inclosed place; to kennel. \ (a.) So placed as to resist forces tending to cause motion; of such structure as to resist distortion or molecular or chemical disturbance; -- said of any body or substance.
ins stew (n.) A small pond or pool where fish are kept for the table; a vivarium. \ (n.) An artificial bed of oysters. \ (v. t.) To boil slowly, or with the simmering or moderate heat; to seethe; to cook in a little liquid, over a gentle fire, without boiling; as, to stew meat; to stew oysters; to stew apples. \ (v. i.) To be seethed or cooked in a slow, gentle manner, or in heat and moisture. \ (v. t.) A place of stewing or seething; a place where hot bathes are furnished; a hothouse. \ (v. t.) A brothel; -- usually in the plural. \ (v. t.) A prostitute. \ (v. t.) A dish prepared by stewing, a stewof pigeons. \ (v. t.) A state of agitating excitement; a state of worry; confusion, to be in a stew.
ins strip (v. t.) To deprive; to bereave; to make destitute; to plunder; especially, to deprive of a covering; to skin; to peel; as, to strip a man of his possession, his rights, his privileges, his reputation; to strip one of his clothes; to strip a beast of his skin; to strip a tree of its bark. \ (v. t.) To divest of clothing; to uncover. \ (v. t.) To dismantle, to strip a ship of rigging, spars, etc. \ (v. t.) To pare off the surface of, as land, in strips. \ (v. t.) To deprive of all milk; to milk dry; to draw the last milk from; hence, to milk with a peculiar movement of the hand on the teats at the last of a milking, to strip a cow. \ (v. t.) To pass; to get clear of; to outstrip. \ (v. t.) To pull or tear off, as a covering; to remove; to wrest away, to strip the skin from a beast; to strip the bark from a tree; to strip the clothes from a man's back; to strip away all disguisses. \ (v. t.) To tear off (the thread) from a bolt or nut, the thread is stripped. \ (v. t.) To tear off the thread from (a bolt or nut), the bolt is stripped. \ (v. t.) To remove the metal coating from (a plated article), as by acids or electrolytic action. \ (v. t.) To remove fiber, flock, or lint from; -- said of the teeth of a card when it becomes partly clogged. \ (v. t.) To pick the cured leaves from the stalks of (tobacco) and tie them into "hands"; to remove the midrib from (tobacco leaves). \ (v. i.) To take off, or become divested of, clothes or covering; to undress. \ (v. i.) To fail in the thread; to lose the thread, as a bolt, screw, or nut. See Strip, v. t., 8. \ (n.) A narrow piece, or one comparatively long, a strip of cloth; a strip of land. \ (n.) A trough for washing ore. \ (n.) The issuing of a projectile from a rifled gun without acquiring the spiral motion.
ins surrounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surround \ (a.) Inclosing; encircling. \ (n.) An encompassing. \ (n.) The things which surround or environ; external or attending circumstances or conditions.
ins temptation (n.) The act of tempting, or enticing to evil; seduction. \ (n.) The state of being tempted, or enticed to evil. \ (n.) That which tempts; an inducement; an allurement, especially to something evil.
ins thorough (prep.) Through. \ (a.) Passing through; as, thorough lights in a house. \ (a.) Passing through or to the end; hence, complete; perfect, a thorough reformation; thorough work; a thorough translator; a thorough poet. \ (adv.) Thoroughly. \ (adv.) Through. \ (n.) A furrow between two ridges, to drain off the surface water.
ins trace (n.) One of two straps, chains, or ropes of a harness, extending from the collar or breastplate to a whiffletree attached to a vehicle or thing to be drawn; a tug. \ (v. t.) A mark left by anything passing; a track; a path; a course; a footprint; a vestige; as, the trace of a carriage or sled; the trace of a deer; a sinuous trace. \ (v. t.) A very small quantity of an element or compound in a given substance, especially when so small that the amount is not quantitatively determined in an analysis; -- hence, in stating an analysis, often contracted to tr. \ (v. t.) A mark, impression, or visible appearance of anything left when the thing itself no longer exists; remains; token; vestige. \ (v. t.) The intersection of a plane of projection, or an original plane, with a coordinate plane. \ (v. t.) The ground plan of a work or works. \ (v. t.) To mark out; to draw or delineate with marks; especially, to copy, as a drawing or engraving, by following the lines and marking them on a sheet superimposed, through which they appear, to trace a figure or an outline; a traced drawing. \ (v. t.) To follow by some mark that has been left by a person or thing which has preceded; to follow by footsteps, tracks, or tokens. \ (v. t.) Hence, to follow the trace or track of. \ (v. t.) To copy; to imitate. \ (v. t.) To walk over; to pass through; to traverse. \ (v. i.) To walk; to go; to travel. \ (n.) A connecting bar or rod, pivoted at each end to the end of another piece, for transmitting motion, esp. from one plane to another; specif., such a piece in an organ-stop action to transmit motion from the trundle to the lever actuating the stop slider.
ins triple (a.) Consisting of three united; multiplied by three; threefold; as, a triple knot; a triple tie. \ (a.) Three times repeated; treble. See Treble. \ (a.) One of three; third. \ (a.) To make threefold, or thrice as much or as many; to treble, to triple the tax on coffee.
ins united (imp. & p. p.) of Unite \ (a.) Combined; joined; made one.
ins van (n.) The front of an army; the first line or leading column; also, the front line or foremost division of a fleet, either in sailing or in battle. \ (n.) A shovel used in cleansing ore. \ (v. t.) To wash or cleanse, as a small portion of ore, on a shovel. \ (n.) A light wagon, either covered or open, used by tradesmen and others fore the transportation of goods. \ (n.) A large covered wagon for moving furniture, etc., also for conveying wild beasts, for exhibition. \ (n.) A close railway car for baggage. See the Note under Car, 2. \ (n.) A fan or other contrivance, as a sieve, for winnowing grain. \ (n.) A wing with which the air is beaten. \ (v. t.) To fan, or to cleanse by fanning; to winnow.
ins via (n.) A road way. \ (prep.) By the way of; as, to send a letter via Queenstown to London.
ins warmth (n.) The quality or state of being warm; gentle heat; as, the warmth of the sun; the warmth of the blood; vital warmth. \ (n.) A state of lively and excited interest; zeal; ardor; fervor; passion; enthusiasm; earnestness, the warmth of love or piety; he replied with much warmth. \ (n.) The glowing effect which arises from the use of warm colors; hence, any similar appearance or effect in a painting, or work of color.
ins width (n.) The quality of being wide; extent from side to side; breadth; wideness; as, the width of cloth; the width of a door.
ins yawn (v. i.) To open the mouth involuntarily through drowsiness, dullness, or fatigue; to gape; to oscitate. \ (v. i.) To open wide, as if to allow the entrance or exit of anything. \ (v. i.) To open the mouth, or to gape, through surprise or bewilderment. \ (v. i.) To be eager; to desire to swallow anything; to express desire by yawning; as, to yawn for fat livings. \ (n.) An involuntary act, excited by drowsiness, etc., consisting of a deep and long inspiration following several successive attempts at inspiration, the mouth, fauces, being wide open. \ (n.) The act of opening wide, or of gaping. \ (n.) A chasm, mouth, or passageway.
count
